 #campaign

### Player Characters

* [[Atlas]]
* [[Selena]]
* [[Willimond]]
* [[Luna Rose]]

### Outline

#### Into the Mists (Introduction)

>[!info]-  Eberron Connection
>Per existing canon, the mists spread across Cyre on the Day of Mourning, killing or transforming anything caught within them. If you follow this path, you could say that those things twisted by the Mourning died in Eberron but lived on in the Demiplane of Dread.
>
>A possible twist on this is to start a campaign with the player characters in Cyre on the Day of Mourning (you’d want to make clear to the players that they’ve never heard of the Mourning, and that the war is still going on). They see the dead-grey mists, but when the mists pass over them… nothing happens. Everything appears to be the same. Continue the adventure as normal, but the players will eventually learn of the impassible wall of mist surrounding the borders of the nation, and discover the slowly spreading darkness that is corrupting every aspect of their land.

For any characters coming from Eberron (they will encounter anyone from Barovia immediately after this):

>The sound of revelry fills the streets and your ears - but it's become a persistent drone you've become used to while in the capital. That's what makes the sudden silence so jarring. The eerie silence persists as a dead-grey mist rolls toward you and everyone around you, enveloping you and blocking your vision. But when the mists pass over you... nothing happens. Everything feels exactly the same. As you walk forward, the mists eventually begin to clear, but all you see is a single road surrounded by forests.

Anyone looking around will see a fortified village, with a stone perimeter wall, in the near distance along the road (read the S1 flavor text). This is the Village of Krezk (Chapter 8, pg. 143), but the players won't be able to get past the gates at this point. Play out all of S2, including the introduction of Burgomaster Dmitri Krezkov ("Are you Strahd’s allies or enemies?"). After that's run its course, or the players try to gain access to the village, then the player with the highest Passive Perception hears the howling of wolves in the distance. If they persist, then all of the players hear the howling of wolves a little closer. If the players decide they need to flee somewhere else, then have the Vistani wagon appear (and read the text below).

>A colorful barrel-topped wagon rockets through the chilly night air, wild horses speeding it toward you. A voice rings out in your direction: "I'm here to help - grab hold of the wagon and climb in!".

Call for an Athletics or Acrobatics check (DC 12) to climb onto the wagon. Madam Eva can save one player by grabbing their hand if they fail, but anyone else will still be on the road (in which case the players in the wagon may convince Eva to circle back around and pick them up, which she will do if they agree to a reading). After everyone is on board, read the text below.

>The smell of incense burns in your nose. Madam Eva, the old, hunched Vistani woman with piercing eyes and a strange smile, sits in the carriage with you. The fortune-teller offered to take you in her carriage to her encampment near the Village of Barovia in exchange for having your fortunes read. At the time it seemed a good way to avoid the wolves and other dangers of the wood, but looking into her inscrutable face, you can’t be sure. Madam Eva pulls a deck of tarokka cards from a box in her lap. She shuffles the cards and begins setting them on a small table in the middle of the carriage…

Perform the tarokka card reading, but with a stacked deck. Put only the following cards in the common deck:
* Paladin (2 of Swords/Spades)
* Mercenary (4 of Swords/Spades)
* Berserker (6 of Swords/Spades)
* Dictator (8 of Swords/Spades)
* Warrior (Master of Swords/10 of Spades)
* Transmuter (1 of Stars/Ace of Clubs)
* Evoker (6 of Stars/Clubs)
* Necromancer (8 of Stars/Clubs)
* Swashbuckler (1 of Coins/Ace of Diamonds)
* Merchant (4 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Guild Member (5 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Miser (9 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Shepherd (4 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Anarchist (6 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Priest (Master of Glyphs/10 of Hearts)
* Hooded One (7 of Swords/Spades)
* Elementalist (5 of Stars/Clubs)
* Bishop (8 of Glyphs/Hearts)
Switch cards 4 and 5 (from the high deck), if needed, to provide a better NPC ally for the players.

At the end of the reading, the wagon stops at the Tsar Pool Encampment (Area G, pg. 36), and Madame Eve retires to her tent. From there, the players can continue to the Village of Barovia (Chapter 3, Area E, pg. 41).

#### Village of Barovia

When the players return after accomplishing something (getting Ireena to Vallaki, meeting their Ally, etc.), Rahadin is sitting in his black carriage at the entrance to the Village, and hands the players their invitation to dinner.

#### Castle Ravenloft Initial (Dinner Invite)

Rather than having an illusion of Strahd in the dining room when they arrive, follow the sequence below to play out a full multiple course dinner where Strahd is introduced as part of the progression. Strahd and his escorts never actually eat anything, but only sip on goblets of red liquid.

##### Hors d'Oeuvres
Brie & Pear Finger Sandwiches; Marinated Almond-Stuffed Olives; and Truffled Mushroom Tartlets

Rahadin escorts the party into the dining hall, invites them to dine upon pre-arranged hors d'oeuvres while he notifies Strahd and the other guests of their arrival, and informs them it should only take ten minutes at the most. "My master was unsure when to expect you, so indulge us this slight inconvenience of waiting." This gives players a chance to explore the room or the nearby rooms if they wish.

The serving trays, plates, and other items should look ornate but slightly tarnished or faded, reflecting the decaying grandeur of the rest of Barovia.

##### Soup
Lobster Bisque

Soup is served immediately after Strahd's three brides and Escher arrive. They escorted in by Cyrus Belview, who introduces himself as their maître d' for the evening. The mongrelfolk manservant musters all his dignity as he boasts about his position, but he ultimately comes off more pathetic than anything else.

This course is a chance for players to get to know Strahd's four lovers outside of combat, apart from Strahd himself. Whatever you choose for their personalities, this is these NPCs' chance to shine, especially with Strahd not around to inhibit their speech or overshadow them.

##### Salad
Romaine with Light Olive Oil & Red Wine Vinaigrette

The bisque is cleared away, replaced by fresh green lettuce drizzled with light oil and a blood red vinaigrette.
Strahd arrives as the salad course is being removed, and immediately introduces himself.

**Introduction:**
>Welcome, my friends. I am Count Strahd von Zarovich, Lord of Barovia, Master of Castle Ravenloft. Tonight, you are my guests, and no harm shall befall you while you remain in my home. I am a man of my word, and you have it.
>You may wonder why I have invited you here. It is for the mere pleasure of your company, and for me to learn more about those who have had, might I say, an influence on my realm. I have been observing you closely, and already know much about you, but am eager to hear of each of you in your own words.

##### Entrée

The salad is cleared away, replaced by a plate of sliced tender beef drizzled in a dark sauce and framed by vibrant greens. Placed between the characters are bowls of freshly baked bread, still warm from the oven, and pads of freshly churned butter.

**On what brought them to Barovia:**
>Perhaps I did, to make you my playthings. Perhaps you are merely the last in a long line of sordid fortune seekers brought here to amuse me. Children have their dolls, men their womenfolk, their wine, their games of chance. I have you.
>Or perhaps not. Perhaps you brought yourselves here, by the force of your yearnings. For there is something or someone each of you wants in Barovia. You must not underestimate the power of desire. It has built empires, slain invincible kings. It can shape the world you inhabit.
>Or perhaps there is no reason at all. There is nothing wrong with a mystery. You will learn that in time. I will say no more on the subject.

**On the Vistani:**
>My glorious, beloved itinerants. So much of the flavour of Barovia, wouldn’t you say? The scent of their spices, the strum of their stringed instruments. I am forever indebted to them, and they therefore have privileges unafforded to my other subjects. They saved my life once. True. Long ago, such a thing was still possible.

##### Dessert

The entree dishes are cleared away, to be replaced by saucers topped with an arrangement of fresh fruits. The bright reds and yellows of the berries, picked at the height of their seasons, stands in stark contrast to the darkness of the castle.

##### Digestif

Strahd pours each character a small glass of reserve port, imported from an outside winery by the Vistani.

##### Spending the Night

Once the dinner is concluded, Strahd will offer to let the party stay in his castle until morning. He will also grant them leave to explore the castle at their leisure, save for the castle’s lower levels.

Should the party accept Strahd’s invitation, they are led by Cyrus Belview to the lounge and guest room (areas K49 and K50) where they may spend the night. After attending to their needs, Cyrus excuses himself and returns to his chambers (area K66).

In the morning, the characters are roused by Cyrus who leads them the courtyard. There, the black carriage waits to take them anywhere in Barovia.

Strahd’s guarantee of safe passage lasts until the final member of the party exits the carriage. At that point, the door to the carriage slams shut of its own accord, and the horses immediately dart off toward the castle. An ambush soon follows, comprised of your choice of Strahd’s minions.

#### Optional Tracts

Have at least one appearance of Strahd in each tract, or even better, a visit to Castle Ravenloft if possible. If none of the suggestions below apply to select a tract, turn over cards 4 and 5 in the reading first - if a card is Raven (Ravens), Innocent (Witches), Beast (Wolves), or Ghost (Dragons), then use that tract. Otherwise select randomly or default to Ravens (Tract 1).

##### Tract 1: Ravens

1. Village of Barovia (area E, chapter 13)
	* Father Donavich suggests that Ireena be brought to the fortified town of Vallaki.
	* Morgantha, the night hag in the guise of an old woman, should communicate that Strahd comes to a place called Yester Hill on occasion to gaze upon an image of his ancestral home city in the fog, even though he knows it can’t be real. He sits below an evil tree that grows atop a hill of graves.
		* "An evil tree grows atop a hill of graves where the ancient dead sleep. The ravens can help you find it. Look for the treasure there."
2. Town of Vallaki (area N, chapter 5)
	* Urwin (Innkeeper at the Blue Water Inn) asks them if they would be so kind as to find out what’s holding up the latest shipment from the Wizard of Wines winery, promising them free room and board if they return with the wine.
		* If the party connects with the Keepers of the Feather (in whispers, "Do you also fight against the devil Strahd?"), then they could say that they used to work with a young girl named Stella Wachter, who didn't agree with her mother's support of Strahd. But they haven't seen her in several days.
		* The Keepers could also direct the party to the dusk elves (and Kasimir Velikov specifically), who live in a camp outside of Vallaki, if they need more help.
	* They should encounter Nikolai and Karl Wachter in the Blue Water Inn as well, stating they're trapped in Vallaki with nothing to do but spend their mothers' money on wine - but they're not as trapped as their sister Stella who is literally locked inside their house by their mother. Their mother claims that she has been driven insane, and locks her up for her own protection. Their father never would have done that, if he were still alive.
		* "Find a girl driven to insanity, locked in the heart of her dead father’s house. Curing her madness is key to your success."
3. Castle Ravenloft Initial (Dinner Invite)
	* After the party leaves Ireena in Vallaki, the next place they go they will find the Black Carriage on the road, and Rahadin gives them the invite to dinner.
4. Wizard of Wines (area W, chapter 12)
	1. Final gem stolen five days ago by the druids of Yester Hill. The wereravens tried a counterattack, but it was unsuccessful, and so should ask for the party for help retrieving that gem (and don't worry about the others, since it would take too long).
5. Yester Hill (area Y, chapter 14)
	1. The Tome of Strahd is buried amid the roots of the Gulthias tree, beneath the skeleton of the dead adventurer. Characters who dig in the ground under the skeleton automatically find it.
	2. In the case of a TPK, the players wake up a few hours later at the top of the Hill, and it's clear that the druid ritual was completed and the tree blight has made its way toward the Winery.
6. Amber Temple (area X, chapter 13)
	1. Kasimir Velikov, the dusk elf who lives in the Vistani camp outside of Vallaki, could serve as a good hook and even accompany the group to the Amber Temple.
7. Castle Ravenloft Final

Add cards to reading:
* Torturer (9 of Swords/Spades)
* Illusionist (7 of Stars/Clubs)
* Beggar (6 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Rogue (Master of Coins/Diamonds)
* Traitor (9 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Trader (3 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Druid (5 of Glyphs/Hearts)

##### Tract 2: Witches
If Ranger/Druid in party.

1. Village of Barovia (area E, chapter 13)
	* Morgantha, the night hag in the guise of an old woman, should communicate that Strahd’s obsession before Ireena was a woman named Marina, whom he met in a small village on the shore of the Luna River. That village is now destroyed, but exploring it may expose some secrets.
2. Ruins of Berez (area U, chapter 10)
3. Yester Hill (area Y, chapter 14)
4. Wizard of Wines (area W, chapter 12)
5. Amber Temple (area X, chapter 13)

Add cards to reading:
* Enchanter (3 of Stars/Clubs)
* Conjurer (9 of Stars/Clubs)
* Trader (3 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Druid (5 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Diviner (2 of Stars)

##### Tract 3: Wolves
If Warlock/Cleric in party.

1. Village of Barovia (area E, chapter 13)
	* Father Donavich suggests that Ireena be brought to the Abbey of Saint Markovia in Krezk.
	* Morgantha, the night hag in the guise of an old woman, could communicate that Strahd’s most carefully guarded secret is a temple of forbidden lore hidden in the mountains south of Vallaki.
1. Village of Krezk - including Abbey of Saint Markovia (area S, chapter 8)
2. Lake Zarovich (area L)
3. Werewolf Den (area Z, chapter 15)
4. Amber Temple (area X, chapter 13)

Add cards to reading:
* Myrmidon (5 of Swords/Spades)
* Philanthropist (2 of Coins/Diamonds)
* Monk (1 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Missionary (2 of Glyphs/Hearts)
* Healer (3 of Glyphs/Hearts)

##### Tract 4: Dragons
If Paladin or Dragonborn in party.

1. Village of Barovia (area E, chapter 13)
	* Father Donavich suggests that Ireena be brought to the fortified town of Vallaki.
	* Morgantha, the night hag in the guise of an old woman, should communicate that Strahd has undead enemies in Barovia, namely the fallen knights of the Order of the Silver Dragon. These revenants can be found in a ruined mansion west of Vallaki.
1. Town of Vallaki (area N, chapter 5)
2. Ruins of Berez (area U, chapter 10)
3. Argynvostholt (area Q, chapter 7)
4. Amber Temple (area X, chapter 13)

Add cards to reading:
* Torturer (9 of Swords/Spades)
* Illusionist (7 of Stars/Clubs)
* Rogue (Master of Coins/Diamonds)
* Avenger (1 of Swords/Spades)
* Enchanter (3 of Stars/Clubs)
* Abjurer (4 of Stars/Clubs)
* Conjurer (9 of Stars/Clubs)

#### Amber Temple

The general idea here is to pack all of the fighting into the first part, then transition into gaining backstory from Exethanter in the "Inner Sanctum" (X27-X30), and finally gaining dark gifts from the Amber Sarcophagi (X40, X42). Also could be way more fun to play up Exethanter as an important NPC, as outlined in the link below.

https://www.reddit.com/r/CurseofStrahd/comments/a1x1pz/fleshing_out_curse_of_strahd_the_amber_temple/

If a TPK were to happen, the party should wake up in the Central Catacombs (X31) inside of their own alcoves, with whatever Lingering Injury they obtained. If a second TPK happens, have them wake up in the Lich's Lair (X27) instead.

`encounter: 3: Flameskull`
`encounter: 1: Arcanaloth`
`encounter: 1: Stone Golem`
`encounter: 7: Specter`
`encounter: 6: Vampire Spawn`

##### X30. Preserved Library

Change it so the library is easily accessible from X5 (amber door outside and no secret door on the X30 side) and the ceiling is higher than the players can see.

>While this library seems small at first glance, you quickly find that the ceiling is so high, you cannot spot its end. Six immense, black marble bookcases line the walls and stretch up into unending heights. Each shelf on each bookcase is filled with well preserved tomes and carefully stacked scrolls. The amount of knowledge stored within this single room seems unfathomable.
>Dozens of floating, copper lanterns light the room, hovering at various heights throughout the library. To the north, a black marble railing encloses an amber staircase that spirals gently down to a lower level. Embroidered rugs, chairs, and lit candelabras fill the center of the room.

#### Castle Ravenloft Final

##### Introduction

“Strahd Must Die Tonight” has a four-hour (we're using three hours) real-life time limit (plus the half hour or so it takes to fight Strahd). Have Strahd appear before them in person as they enter the castle (area K8) and declare the time limit (which sidesteps the issue of game time passing differently than in real-time).
> I warned you against returning here. It appears you have not been listening, so let me be very clear. You are here because I willed it; you exist because I allow it; and you will die when I demand it.
> But I have not fully tired of you yet, and there are still three hours left in this special day. So I will find you at midnight, and end your lives. Do not try to leave the castle - for if you do, the chase will be more fun for me, and the death will be more painful for you. Good evening.
* And with that, Strahd disappears, replaced by a magical floating hourglass that immediately starts to drain sand.

##### K30. King's Accountant

Reflavor Lief as a specter, who has worked for Strahd for centuries, and asks the party if they're also employees of Strahd. His only motivation is to keep the books, so the Dark Powers don't audit him. Remove the rope entirely, and don't have any random encounters. Lief can also hint to the presence of a treasury (K41) somewhere upstairs, but he doesn't remember the exact location.

##### K62. Servants' Hall

Cyrus Jokes:
* The Master isn't that bad, but sometimes he can be a _pain in the neck_.
* Being a servant isn't *tomb* bad, i have no *bones* to pick.

##### K78. Brazier Room

Replace or remove several of the locations so they stay in the castle.

Cast a stone into the fire:
Green leads to the vineyard's mire (Wizard of Wines, W)
Orange to the castle’s peak (North Tower Peak, K60)
Red if lore is what you seek (Study, K37)
Blue to ancient magic’s womb (Amber Temple, X)
Yellow to the master’s tomb (Strahd’s Tomb, K86)

##### K84. Catacombs

* Crypt 4: *Ludmilla Vilisevic: Eldest and wisest of my beloved
	* Ludmilla, the eldest of Strahd’s current consorts, is here in her crypt. In life, she drew his attention and with her keen mind. Ludmilla reminded Strahd more than a bit of himself, which is what drew him to take her as a consort.
	* While dealing with others, Ludmilla is cool-headed to the point of being nearly devoid of emotion. When faced with problems, she approaches them methodically and logically.
	* Ludmilla is a wizard of significant talent, though not as powerful as Strahd. At present, she is delving into the sciences, including her experiments on lycanthropes at Tsolenka Pass, where she may be readily encountered. In addition to her scientific studies, she has taken on the daily running of Castle Ravenloft. Ludmilla has a hand in everything from planning dinners to budgeting expenses with Lief.
	* The closest thing that Ludmilla has to a friend is Strahd’s most loyal servant, Rahadin. That protection and Strahd’s respect for her brilliant mind have kept her from being locked away in the crypts. If Rahadin is slain while she still lives, she will ruthlessly pursue and attack the party until she is slain.
* Crypt 7: *Anastrasya Karelova: Once a noble, now the strongest of my beloved*
	* A former Vallakian noblewoman, Anastrasya is the most proud of Strahd’s consorts. She is deeply jealous of the affection that Strahd holds for the memory of Tatyana, as well as the focus that he has on acquiring Ireena as a new bride.
	* In her dealings with others, she prefers brute force and violence, but tempers herself with the tact of her noble upbringing. Still, she was accustomed to being obeyed in life and expects the same of anyone that she considers her “lesser” in undeath. She also has a distinct dislike of Ludmilla whom she believes — quite correctly — Strahd holds in higher regard than herself.
	* Despite her hatred of Ireena, Anastrasya fancies herself in love with Strahd still, and cannot be turned against him by the characters. She is clever enough, however, to pretend to ally herself with the party in order to later betray them to earn back some favor with Strahd.
* Crypt 18: *Escher von Preshlow: Respected and adored for his wit and talent*
	* In life Escher was a bard in a former adventuring party that was brought to Barovia to fight against Strahd von Zarovich. Before slaughtering the rest of the party, Strahd took a liking to the talented poet and musician’s wit and chose to keep him as a consort.
	* Escher is clever and outwardly obedient to Strahd, even though he longs for his freedom from the Count. He wishes to escape Strahd’s clutches, having seen his ruthlessness and cruelty firsthand, as well as what becomes of his cast off consorts once they bore him. He distances himself from the other consorts and, as written, remains in the tower rooms as much as possible.
	* Escher can provide valuable information to the character, and may render aid to them within limitations. He cannot actively cause harm to Strahd or provide the characters with a weapon to use against him. However, he can give clues as to the location of any Fortunes of Ravenloft items that are within the castle. Additionally, he cannot tell the players about the purpose of the Heart of Sorrow, though he can lead them to it.
	* So long as Escher believes that the characters can defeat Strahd, he will aid them in their quest. Drinking the blood of a vampire (not a spawn) will free him of Strahd’s control, as will slaying him and bringing him back to life with a Resurrection, True Resurrection, or Wish Spell.
* Crypt 29: *Volenta Popofsky: The shadows adore her as much as I do* 
	* Raised as an orphan, and having grown up on the streets of the Village of Barovia, Volenta is the second youngest of Strahd’s consorts. She is skilled at hiding in the shadows and setting traps for others. This, combined with her ruthless nature makes her useful in dealing with intruders to the castle; traits that Strahd finds entertaining enough to keep her around for a few more centuries.
	* Volenta is a stealthy assassin, blending flawlessly into the shadows of Castle Ravenloft, where she is likely to be encountered. If the characters are within the castle at Strahd’s invitation and are behaving themselves, she will not attack them. Instead, she will taunt them and goad them into attacking her, or will attempt to lure them into a trap.
* Crypt 31: *Sunsword* is found here, lying next to the skeleton at the bottom of the pit.

##### K87 and K88. Guardians and Parents' Tomb

Change it so the curtain of light keeps out any living creature, but allows any undead to move through without issue. Strahd is on the inside, paying his respects to his parents (at least until the three hours is up).

##### Development

Ideally, the players will spend their time fully exploring the castle as much as possible, and then finding Strahd themselves before the final hourglass ends. Any NPC within the castle can explain to the players where Strahd is and why (based on the Tarroka card reading, make up an excuse for him to be there). Alternatively, once the three hours are up, Strahd immediately appears before the party and attacks.
>All that is required to leave this land, is my permission; or, my life. The former will never be given, and the latter will never be taken.

##### Final Battle

`encounter: 1: Vampire Spawn`

`encounter: 1: Shadow`

* Heart of Sorrow absorbs the first 50 hit points (and any damage is quickly undone).
* Use the Charm ability liberally to get people to give up any magic items, or to have PCs protect him from the other PCs.
* Use his Lair Actions primarily to move throughout the castle, especially if he's low on HP (to give him time to regenerate), or to create a shadow ally (that can use its Strength Drain to really hurt the players).
* Strahd should always stay mobile, as he's not exactly a damage sponge. Move may be his most useful Legendary Action, since he doesn't take opportunity attacks. Mist form can be another great way to get away, especially in conjunction with the *fog cloud* spell.
* Creating a swarm of bats can be a good way to get away too - even turning into a bat himself and flying away in the chaos.
* If things get out of hand, Rahadin could join the fight. Or Barovian Witches (if not killed already).

* Half way through the battle, Strahd should put a dramatic twist on things.
> Was it naivety or foolishness that allowed you to believe, that you could enter, without invitation, into the lair of a Dark Lord and expect to escape without retribution?!
> Now all of Barovia will suffer for your hubris. All will know that while each of you lives there will be... only... _**darkness**_.
> *Strahd flies out of a window into the sky, grabs the moon in his hand, and crushes it, plunging Barovia into eternal shadow*
> I am Strahd von Zarovich, and this... is _**my game**_.

* Even if Strahd moves throughout the castle, try to end the battle in Sergei's Tomb.

### Sessions

Session Zero (10/5/23) - Character Creation + Introduction (Entry into the Mists, Tser Pool Encampment)

* This is not a traditional D&D campaign. It is a roleplay heavy, low combat campaign that can be REALLY HARD when it does come to combat. You will never feel all-powerful and there are limited magic items - Barovia is a dangerous place, so treat it as such. This is a horror campaign, after all, not heroic fantasy - and this is not the right campaign for min-maxing. Recommend human or human-like characters as opposed to monstrous characters, as they'll fit in better with the residents of Barovia. Also recommend non-evil characters.
* While the characters I play are out to get you, I personally am always on your side. If you ever feel like I'm punishing you or working against you, them please let me know. Strahd is a charismatic, manipulative bastard, and sometimes it can feel like the DM is trying to ruin the players' day rather than Strahd trying to ruin the characters' day.
* **Lingering Injuries.** This campaign is designed to be punishing and difficult, but also roleplay heavy - so I don't want player death that requires us to introduce new characters. So instead, if your player reaches 0 hit points and fails their death saves, they are knocked out of the current combat and obtain a Lingering Injury. This will be a noticeable scar or deformation that can impact roleplay, and will also have a mechanical effect for the rest of the campaign. You can choose an appropriate one from a table, or make one up.
* **Stress and Ideals/Bonds/Flaws.** Stress works in conjunction with your ideals, bonds, and flaws, so when something happens in line with or against those traits, it will impact your character in the short term (and eventually in the long term). Exhaustion mechanics are adjusted so their effects are only physical and Stress is mental.
* **Keeping Things Moving.** With an abbreviated campaign, we have to try to keep things moving. I reserve the right to break out the 1 minute timer if an encounter is dragging - if that timer runs out on your turn before you decide on what you want to do, then you take the Dodge Action and we move on. Please be thinking about your next turn while others are taking theirs.
* **Lines and Veils.** In my initial read of the entire book, I didn't see anything that was over my lines that I couldn't just easily leave out. Mostly we're dealing with basic gothic horror things here, so if you can watch a vampire movie without issues, you should be comfortable here. After all, "horror should be uncomfortable and intriguing, not actually traumatizing." The worst part that we might see is some "light torture". But let's come up with a way to communicate when folks are uncomfortable (messaging me might not work since I don't usually have Discord open or my phone in front of me).
	* X card?
	* "Let's pause for a minute"?

Session 1 (10/12/23) - Introduction, Village of Barovia

Session 2 (10/19/23) - Castle Ravenloft Initial

Session 3 (10/26/23) - Selected Tract

Session 4 (11/2/23) - Selected Tract, Amber Temple

Session 5 (11/9/23) - Amber Temple

Session 6 (11/16/23) - Castle Ravenloft Final (Three Hours Countdown)

### Dream Pastries

If one or more of the players decides to eat a dream pastry, transition into a strange almost dream-like sequence where everyone sings instead of speaks. There are several options for songs depending on which character is focused on.

* **Escher**. Dracula the Musical, The Master's Song (https://open.spotify.com/track/6cSWpl1MKTwszrUq5PUAnf?si=7a5f490c39b04140). The eater(s) finds themselves in the lounge of the castle where Escher spends most of his time, where he immediately starts singing.
* **Tatyana / Ireena**. Dracula the Musical, The Mist (https://open.spotify.com/track/78ROUJoUdINLZH5tjSlvsq?si=19f359c0160b4be6). The eater(s) finds themselves at Yester Hill, nears the mists, where they see Strahd dancing with a beautiful young woman who is singing.
* **Sergei**. Dracula the Musical, Before the Summer Ends (https://open.spotify.com/track/5SvpSX3bKJ2Hv40vraqJcY?si=7bbb0cdd63194f23). The eater(s) find themselves within Castle Ravenloft with a handsome young man (Sergei) and a beautiful young woman (Tatyana), where the man is expressing his feelings to the woman.
* **Baron Vargas Vallakovich**. Dracula the Musical, Deep in the Darkest Night (https://open.spotify.com/track/0ihhasaq3lhBgbxYbL78hH?si=c8943d6e99cc4682). The eater(s) find themselves in the town square of Vallaki, just before the Festival of the Blazing Sun, where the Baron is singing.
* **Count Strahd Von Zarovich**. Dracula the Musical, The Longer I Live (https://open.spotify.com/track/7LQsRYm58My5OY48iTyGNg?si=10ff352c1149434e). The eater(s) find themselves outside of a great temple in the snowy mountains, where Strahd himself sings.

### Accents and Miscellaneous

* Eastern Barovia (Village of Barovia, Castle Ravenloft) - Romanian (traditional "vampire accent")
* Western Barovia (Vallaki and Krezk) - British (Cockney for the commoners and higher accents for the Baron and Madame Wachter)
* Visanti are Halflings from Eberron, with a similar flair for color and tribal tradition (and also using a Romanian accent).

### References

* https://www.dndbeyond.com/forums/dungeons-dragons-discussion/dungeon-masters-only/83221-curse-of-strahd-in-5-sessions
* https://slyflourish.com/running_ravenloft.html
* https://keith-baker.com/dragonmarks-50216-ravenloft/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/CurseofStrahd/comments/nmyhee/is_it_possible_to_cram_curse_of_strahd_into_6/
* https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/359-strahd-must-die-tonight-how-to-play-ravenloft-in-a
* https://www.reddit.com/r/CurseofStrahd/comments/r6xbr4/dinner_with_strahd_a_cheat_sheet/
* https://lunchbreakheroes.com/dinner-with-the-devil/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/CurseofStrahd/comments/jhm5yg/ten_course_dinner_menu_at_castle_ravenloft/
