 #campaign 

### Player Characters

* ???

### Major NPCs

* [[Flamewind]]

### Background

After Mother Night's plans with Dream and his portal to the past were foiled by a party of adventuring heroes (see [[C01. What Dreams May Come]]), she was forced to make other arrangements to destroy Eberron. Her new plan involves convincing the Dragons, the most powerful race on Eberron (but reluctant to use their power), that releasing Khyber (Tiamat) is actually a good thing that will lead to a new Eberron in which they will be the only ones in power. While this is technically true, and the Third Age of Eberron does belong to the Dragons, Mother Night only wants to advance the age in order to get closer to Eberron's complete destruction (foretold to happen at the end of the Third Age) and cares nothing for the Dragons.

Mother Night began communicating with a powerful Dragon named Arstyvrax, who had an open heart to Mother Night's ideas due to his ties to necromancy. She stoked the flames of hate in his heart and convinced him to take his Obsidian Dragons and attack Shae Mordai, the seat of the Undying Court in Aerenal. This attack, which occurred on 20 Barrakas 1002, was the first event in the Draconic Prophesy that is said to set in motion the eventual turning to the Third Age of Eberron.

Over the next half century across Eberron, all the clans of Dragons spread out, fueled by a new zeal from the Obsidian Dragon attack. Strangely though, the Obsidian Dragons themselves returned to Argonnessen and set up their base under The Vast, rarely to be seen again. Even more strangely, spottings of mysterious creatures known as sphinxes have been on the rise, especially on the newly liberated continent of Sarlona.

These events have garnered the attention of the formerly only known sphinx in Eberron, a gynosphinx called Flamewind who resides in the city of Sharn. She has been researching closely the events of the last fifty years, and is ready to put out the call for a group of adventurers to take on a dangerous mission...

### Outline


### Locations

##### [[Sarlona]]

This is the primary location for the campaign, with the majority of the Sphinxes residing here. After the turning of the age on Dal Quor in 1000 YK, the Unity of Reidra fell and the continent of Sarlona resorted back to its former ten nations.

##### Xen’drik

The former continent of the giants is still mostly abandoned. The Dragons generally avoid this continent due to their history with the Giants there. Flamewind is known to have originally come from Xen'drik and it's theorize 

**Aerenal**

The elves are the primarily occupants of this continent, led by the copper dragons.

**Argonnesson**

The gem dragons rule all the other dragons from this island, but will occasionally (although rarely) interfere with the events of the other continents and races.

**Khorvaire**

The chromatic dragons rule over various regions of Khorvaire, and a number of different clans clash over various areas of the continent.

**Northwest** (Everice): The frigid islands off the coast of the main continent are ruled over by the White Dragons and primarily populated by Giants.

**Northwest** (Eldeen Reaches)**:** The area northwest of Lake Galifar (now Emerald Lake) is ruled over by the Green Dragons and primarily populated by Elves. The badlands in the northwest corner of the continent are mostly a no-man’s land between the Greens, Whites, and Blacks.

**West** (Shadow Marches, Droaam): All areas between the Greywall Mountains / Silver Lake and the west coast of the continent is controlled by the Black Dragons and primarily populated by Orcs and Goblinoids.

**Northeast** (Lhazaar): The chain of islands east of Hoarfrost Mountains are controlled by the Blue Dragons and primarily populated by Elves.

**East** (Mror Holds): The large mountain ranges, and the lake between them (now Ruby Lake), on the eastern area of the continent are controlled by the Red Dragons and primarily populated by Dwarves.

**Southeast** (Q’Barra, Talenta): The deep jungles of this peninsula is the ancestral home of the Dragonborn and Lizardfolk races, but isn’t currently controlled by any single type of dragon. The plains to the west have become a no-man’s land between the Blue, Red, and Bronze Dragons, as well as the unaffiliated “Scales”.

**South** (Valenar): The region south of Lake Cyre (Bronze Lake) is controlled by the Bronze Dragons and primarily populated by Halflings.

**South** (Darguun, Zilargo, South Cyre): The Brass Dragons control this southern expanse of the continent, and is primarily populated by Gnomes.

**Southwest** (Sharn, Breland): The area up and down the Dagger River, between the Greywall Mountains and the Howling Peaks, up to Silver Lake, is controlled by the Silver Dragons and primarily populated by Dragonborn and other Lizardfolk.