 #campaign 

### Player Characters

* 

### Major NPCs

* [[Flamewind]]
* [[Arstyvrax]]

### Themes

* Law (Sphinxes) and Chaos (Dragons)

### Important Lore

* *Codex of All Mysteries*, Dorius Alyre ir'Korran
* *On the Mysteries of the Draconic Prophesy*, Prof. Windsor Stone

### Background (DM only)

After Mother Night's plans with Dream and his portal to the past were foiled by a party of adventuring heroes (see [[C01. What Dreams May Come]]), she was forced to make other arrangements to destroy Eberron. Her new plan involves convincing the Dragons, the most powerful race on Eberron (but reluctant to use their power), that releasing Khyber (Tiamat) is actually a good thing that will lead to a new Eberron in which they will be the only ones in power. While this is technically true, and the Third Age of Eberron does belong to the Dragons, Mother Night only wants to advance the age in order to get closer to Eberron's complete destruction (foretold to happen at the end of the Third Age) and cares nothing for the Dragons.

Mother Night began communicating with a powerful Dragon named Arstyvrax, who had an open heart to Mother Night's ideas due to his ties to necromancy. She stoked the flames of hate in his heart and convinced him to take his Obsidian Dragons and attack Shae Mordai, the seat of the Undying Court in Aerenal. This attack, which occurred on 20 Barrakas 1002, was the first event in the Draconic Prophesy that is said to set in motion the eventual turning to the Third Age of Eberron.

Over the next half century across Eberron, all the clans of Dragons spread out, fueled by a new zeal from the Obsidian Dragon attack. Strangely though, the Obsidian Dragons themselves returned to Argonnessen and set up their base under The Vast, rarely to be seen again. Even more strangely, sightings of mysterious creatures known as sphinxes have been on the rise, especially on the newly liberated continent of Sarlona.

These events have garnered the attention of the formerly only known sphinx in Eberron, a gynosphinx called Flamewind who resides in the city of Sharn. She has been researching closely the events of the last fifty years, and is ready to put out the call for a group of adventurers to take on a dangerous mission...

This campaign will revolve around exploring underground temples, ruins, etc. and gathering information from sphinxes who hide behind riddles. Eventually, the party could learn enough to take on the Dragons and/or stop their plan to free Khyber. Since sphinxes have powerful magic, including time travel, they might be the only ones powerful enough to take on the dragons. Could also be fun to introduce a Steel Dragon as a ally later in the campaign (could've secretly been an NPC they've met along the way). https://www.reddit.com/r/DnDHomebrew/comments/ljo43s/steel_dragon_statistics_for_5e/

**BBEG**:: Arstyvrax, or Khyber (Tiamat) herself

### Outline (show to players)

The Dragons of Argonnessen have become a regular sight throughout Eberron, including Khorvaire, ever since the Elven city of Shae Mordai mysteriously fell. No one can explain their sudden increased presence, but with the knowledge and riches they bring, very few are complaining.

Even stranger than the dragons is the sudden surge in sightings of mysterious creatures known as sphinxes. These events have garnered the attention of the formerly only known sphinx in Eberron, a gynosphinx called Flamewind who resides in the city of Sharn. She has been researching closely the events of the last fifty years, and is ready to put out the call for a group of adventurers to take on a dangerous mission...

This is a true-to-form Dungeons and Dragons campaign that will revolve around exploring underground temples, ruins, etc. and gathering information from sphinxes who hide behind riddles. Eventually, you may learn more about the events at Shae Mordai, what's been going on over the last fifty years, or what the dragons may be up to.

### Introduction and Session Zero

Each player should create a character with a background tied to one of the Ten Kingdoms of Sarlona. Ideally they're still there and have to travel to Khorvaire to get to Sharn, but they could also have recently already arrived in Khorvaire (if it makes sense for their character to be exploring some aspect of the continent, such as an ancestral tie). That player will determine the details of that particular nation, so it should be one player per nation only (no overlap). Each PC needs to have at least a basic background (hometown, family, etc.) and at least two NPCs that are connected to them in some way.

The campaign will open with vignettes of each character (likely taking at least the entire first session, if not longer). Work with each player to flesh out their backstory if needed, and then roleplay at least one day in the life of that character in their home nation. Any details that come up during that vignette are canon for that nation, so work to establish cultural customs, locations, people, etc. By the end of each players' vignette, they should somehow receive the notification that someone in Sharn is looking for adventurers from Sarlona (and Sarlona only), and establish how they travel to Khorvaire (which will likely vary depending on their lifestyle - could catch a ride on a sailing ship, take an elemental airship, or something else entirely).

The players will then gather in Sharn and meet organically somewhere along the way (depending on how they arrive) or at Morgrave University near Flamewind's office. Flamewind will then fill them in on what's going on, and direct them toward her sphinx friend Thrane.

>The cradle of humanity, Sarlona is a land whose history and present are steeped in conflict. Around the bonfires of the nomadic Syrks, lost legends of sorcerer-kings and devastating magewars are passed from one generation to the next. Myths of the yuan-ti and the Age of Fiends are whispered among the Keepers of the Word and the Heirs of Ohr Kaluun alike.
>Centuries of the continent's history belonged to the Inspired and the Unity of Riedra, but everything changed one day when the age of Dal Quor turned, killing all of the quori and devastating the government that once held a vice grip on almost the entire population. In the last few decades things have started to settle, but the Ten Kingdoms of the new continent are a far cry from Riedra.

### Locations

#### [[Sarlona]]

This is the primary location for the campaign, with many of the sphinxes residing here, and it quickly becomming the primary home for humans. After the turning of the age on Dal Quor in 1000 YK, the Unity of Reidra fell and the continent of Sarlona reverted back to something more akin to its former Twelve Kingdoms.

#### [[Xen’drik]]

The former continent of the giants is still mostly abandoned. The Dragons generally avoid this continent due to their history with the Giants there. Flamewind is known to have originally come from Xen'drik and it's theorized that her lair still exists there somewhere.

#### [[Aerenal]]

The elves are still the primarily occupants of this continent, although in much lower numbers after the Obsidian Dragon attack. The Copper Dragons, who already had a small outpost in the Madwood, have expanded out across much of Aerenal and even into Khorvaire and Sarlona via their commercial enterprise of the Copper Dragon Inns (many just being taken over Gold Dragon Inns).

#### [[Argonnessen]]

The gem dragons rule over all the other dragons from this island, but will occasionally (although rarely) interfere with the events of the other continents and races. The Amethyst Dragons head up the Scions of Sardior who control the continent, and have laid claim to the plains and other lands of the continent, while the Crystal Dragons have claimed the skies, and the Obsidian dragons have sheltered themselves underground.

#### [[Khorvaire]]

The Chromatic and Metallic Dragons are exerting their influence over various regions of Khorvaire, and a number of different clans clash over areas of the continent.

##### Northwest (Everice)
The frigid islands off the coast of the main continent are ruled over by the White Dragons and primarily populated by Giants.

##### Northwest (Eldeen Reaches)
The area northwest of Lake Galifar (now Emerald Lake) is ruled over by the Green Dragons and primarily populated by Elves. The badlands in the northwest corner of the continent are mostly a no-man’s land between the Greens, Whites, and Blacks.

##### West (Shadow Marches, Droaam)
All areas between the Greywall Mountains / Silver Lake and the west coast of the continent is controlled by the Black Dragons and primarily populated by Orcs and Goblinoids.

##### Northeast (Lhazaar)
The chain of islands east of Hoarfrost Mountains are controlled by the Blue Dragons and primarily populated by Elves.

##### East (Mror Holds)
The large mountain ranges, and the lake between them (now Ruby Lake), on the eastern area of the continent are controlled by the Red Dragons and primarily populated by Dwarves.

##### Southeast (Q’Barra, Talenta)
The deep jungles of this peninsula are the ancestral home of the Dragonborn and Lizardfolk races, but isn’t currently controlled by any single type of dragon. The plains to the west have become a no-man’s land between the Blue, Red, and Bronze Dragons, as well as the unaffiliated “Scales”.

##### South (Valenar)
The region south of Lake Cyre (Bronze Lake) is controlled by the Bronze Dragons and primarily populated by Halflings.

##### South (Darguun, Zilargo)
The Brass Dragons control this southern expanse of the continent, and is primarily populated by Gnomes.

##### Southwest (Sharn, Breland)
The area up and down the Dagger River, between the Greywall Mountains and the Howling Peaks, up to Silver Lake, is controlled by the Silver Dragons and primarily populated by Dragonborn and other Lizardfolk.

##### Central (Thrane)
The island of Thronehold, and the surrounding areas, are controlled by the Gold Dragons and their mostly Human subjects. The Dragons converted Galifar's old castle, which had been closed to the public for centuries, into a new golden wonder known as The Golden Palace. By opening it to the public, and allowing everyone to see the riches and power the Dragons possess, the Gold Dragons have been hoisted to the top of the societal hierarchy by the people of Khorvaire.

### Draconic Tribes

| Color | Damage | Leader | Plane | Followers/Organizations | Characteristics | Ally | Enemy | Habitat | Align. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| White | Cold | Kazdurakashtan | Risia (Base in Everice) | Order of the Ivory Scale (Dragon Giants) | Bullying, Persistent |  |  | Arctic Mountains | CE |
| Black | Acid | Vvaraak | Mabar (Base in Shadow Marches/Droaam) | Order of the Onyx Scale (Dragon Orcs) | Vile-tempered, Cruel | Obsidian | Copper | Swamps | CE |
| Green | Poison |  | Lamannia (Base in Eldeen Reaches) | Order of the Emerald Scale (Dragon Elves) | Cunning, Duplicitous, Territorial | Brass |  | Forests | LE |
| Blue | Lightning | Azalakardon | Kythri (Base in Lhazaar) | Order of the Sapphire Scale (Dragon Elves) | Mocking, Manipulative |  | Brass | Deserts, Beaches | LE |
| Red | Fire | Ephelomon | Fernia (Base in Mror Holds) | Order of the Ruby Scale (Dragon Dwarves) | Powerful, Combative | Amethyst | Silver | Mountains, Volcanos | CE |
| Brass | Sleep, Fire |  | Thelanis (Base in Darguun/Zilargo) | The Brass Bards? | Talkative | Green |  | Deserts, Plains | CG |
| Bronze | Lightning, Charm |  | Shavarath (Base in Valenar) | The Bronze Navy | Honorable, Arrogant |  | Blue | Coastlines, Islands | LG |
| Copper | Acid, Incapacitate |  | Xoriat (Base in Aerenal, Madwood) | Copper Dragon Inns? | Joking, Devious, Clever | Crystal |  | Mountains, Deserts | CG |
| Silver | Cold, Paralyze | Yllosavax | Syrania (Base in Breland) | The Silver Scales, Paladin Protectors of the Realm | Protective, Intelligent |  | Red | High Mountains | LG |
| Gold | Fire, Weakening | Sarmondelaryx | Irian (Base in Thrane) | The Golden Palace (seat of the rulers of the civilized world) | Powerful, Wise |  |  | Anywhere | LG |
| Obsidian† | Necrotic | Arstyvrax | Dolurrh (Base in Argonnesson, The Vast) | Scions of Sardior | Viscous, Intelligent | Black | n/a | Underground | CN |
| Crystal | Radiant |  | Dal Quor (Base in Argonnesson) | Scions of Sardior | Fun-loving, Mischievous | Copper | n/a | The Skies | LN |
| Amethyst | Force | Aleithilithos | Daanvi (Base in Argonnesson) | Scions of Sardior | Detached, Peaceful | Red | n/a | Plains | NN |

† Obsidian Gem Dragons are simply Topaz Gem Dragons (5e version from Fizban's) re-flavored as black instead (and without the Fabricate ability). Arstyvrax could use the Ancient Topaz Dragon or Adult Topaz Dragon (depending on desired CR) with the Vampire's additional Bite stuff, Charm action, and Vampire Weaknesses ability.

### Sphinxes

There are three types of Sphinxes: Prophetic Sphinxes, Time Traveling Sphinxes, and Story Sphinxes. Story Sphinxes are tied to Thelanis and are primarily agents of Destiny to keep the Book of Destiny's will on track. Time Traveling Sphinxes are tied to Kythri and are agents of the future civilization of Sphinxes that are trying to prevent their civilization from dying at the end of the Third Age of Eberron. Prophetic Sphinxes are tied to Xoriat and the Maze of Reality, and are agents of the Draconic Prophesy.

All of the Sphinxes are concerned about recent events because they advance the Age more quickly than it's supposed to go. The ways in which each group of Sphinxes tried to correct things may be different though.

| Name      | Creature      | Location         | Appearance                                                               | Inspiration                    |
| --------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Rahotep   | Androsphinx   | Thrane           | Head of a human male, body of a lion, wings of an eagle                  | Egypt, at Giza (Androsphinx)   |
| Flamewind | Gynosphinx    | Sharn / Xen'drik | Head of a human woman, haunches of a lion, wings of a bird               | Greece (Gynosphinx)            |
|           | Criosphinx    | Zilargo          | Head of a ram, body of a lion                                            | Egypt, at Thebes (Criosphinx)  |
|           | Hieracosphinx | Adar             | Head of a hawk, body of a lion                                           | Egypt, at Edfu (Hieracosphinx) |
|           | Equisphinx    | Valenar          | Head of a horse, body of a lion, wings of an eagle                       | India (Sharabha)               |
|           | Mantisphinx   | Shadow Marches   | Head of an orc, body of a lion, wings of a dragon, tail of a scorpion    | Sri Lanka (Nara-simha)         |
|           | Cervisphinx   | Sarlona †        | Head of an ogre, body of a deer                                          | Thailand (Nora Nair)           |
|           | Loquasphinx   | Aerenal          | Head of an elf, body of a lion, wings of an eagle                        | Iran / Persia (Gopaitioshah)   |
|           | Taurosphinx   | Mror Holds       | Head of a dwarf, body of a bull, wings of an eagle                       | Sumeria (Lamassu)              |
|           | Leucosphinx   | Everice          | Head of a giant, body of a lion, white fur with dark green mane and tail | Tibet (Snow Lion)              |

† The location in Sarlona should be any of the Ten Kingdoms where a PC is not from (all PCs should have a background from somewhere in Sarlona), but also not Adar (since there's a sphinx already there, and PCs should not be from Sarlona).

### Adventure Outlines/Ideas

##### Thrane (Androsphinx Lair)

* **Theme**: Riddles
* **Description**: A traditional Egypt-inspired temple to introduce the concept of the sphinxes.

**1. Entrance Hall:**

- **Description:** A grand entrance hall with towering columns and intricate hieroglyphics on the walls, depicting the history of Thrane and its relationship with the sphinxes.
- **Riddle 1 (Entrance Riddle):** "I am a mystery that cannot be unraveled, a secret that cannot be revealed. What am I?" (Answer: a riddle)

**2. Hall of Trials:**

- **Description:** A series of interconnected chambers with intricate murals depicting ancient sphinxes bestowing wisdom upon mortals. There are multiple doorways, each leading to a different trial room.
- **Combat Encounter:** A group of animated stone statues that come to life (Clockwork Stone Defender, CR 4), wielding ancient weapons, representing a trial by combat to test the players' prowess.

**3. Chamber of Reflection:**

- **Description:** A serene room with a reflective pool at the center, surrounded by intricately designed mirrors that seem to reflect different versions of reality. The air is filled with a calming, mysterious aura. Upon closer inspection, the players notice that the reflections in the mirrors change based on the answers to the riddles.

- **Puzzle:** As the players step into the chamber, a set of riddles appears on a stone pedestal near the pool, with corresponding symbols etched into the mirrors around the room. The riddles read:
    - Riddle 1: "I have cities, but no houses. I have mountains, but no trees. I have water, but no fish. What am I?" (Map)
    - Riddle 2: "The more you take, the more you leave behind. What am I?" (Footprints)
    - Riddle 3: "I am always hungry, I must always be fed. The finger I touch will soon turn red. What am I?" (Fire)

- **Mechanics:** Each mirror has a specific symbol etched into it, corresponding to a potential answer for each riddle. When the players correctly answer a riddle, the corresponding symbol lights up in the mirror. However, if they answer incorrectly, a surge of magical energy is released, temporarily blinding and disorienting them. The pool's reflections change to provide hints or clues when the players are stuck, guiding them toward the correct answers.

The players must solve all three riddles correctly to unlock the hidden doorway, allowing them to proceed deeper into the lair.

**4. Library of Ages:**

- **Description:** A vast chamber filled with shelves of ancient tomes and scrolls, containing knowledge about the history of Eberron and the enigmatic sphinxes. The room is dimly lit, and the air is heavy with the scent of ancient parchment.
- **Riddle 2 (Library Door Riddle):** "I am a silent guardian, full of stories untold. Those who seek my knowledge must decipher the ancient code. What am I?" (Answer: an ancient tome)

**5. Chamber of the Wise Guardian:**

- **Description:** A large chamber with an elevated platform, where the male Androsphinx, named Rahotep, resides. Rahotep has a regal demeanor, adorned with ancient symbols of wisdom and power.
- **Personality:** Wise and somewhat aloof, Rahotep values intellect and seeks to guide mortals through their journey, though his pride can sometimes lead to cryptic or enigmatic responses.
- **Dialogue:** Rahotep imparts cryptic wisdom about the balance between law and chaos, warning the players of the dangers posed by the dragons' chaotic influence. He also entrusts them with the McGuffin, a glowing orb that reveals hidden truths about the dragons' plans and their influence in the world.

#### Zilargo (Criosphinx Lair)

* **Theme**: Intricate illusions and mind-bending challenges.
* **Description**: A labyrinthine structure with shifting walls and illusions that test the players' mental acuity and perception.
* **Sphinx**: Zirael
* **Personality**: Mysterious and playful, with a penchant for creating complex illusions to challenge adventurers.
* **Dialogue**: "In the realm of shadows and deceit, only the sharp of mind can distinguish truth from falsehood."

#### Adar (Hieracosphinx Lair)

* **Theme**: Trials of agility and speed, with tests of aerial prowess.
* **Description**: A series of platforms and floating pathways amidst a vast open space, challenging the players' agility and dexterity.
* **Sphinx**: Aerion
* **Personality**: Swift and vigilant, pushing adventurers to prove their grace and speed through challenging aerial obstacles.
* **Dialogue**: "To soar with the grace of the wind is to master one's own destiny."

#### Valenar (Sharabha Lair)

* **Theme**: Tests of courage and strength in the face of adversity.
* **Description**: An ancient coliseum filled with towering statues and fiery obstacles, challenging the players to confront their deepest fears and exhibit unyielding courage.
* **Sphinx**: Valrok
* **Personality**: Fearless and relentless, demanding that adventurers face their inner fears and find strength in the face of adversity.
* **Dialogue**: "To conquer fear is to embrace the truest form of strength. Stand resolute, and let courage be your guiding light."

#### Shadow Marches (Nara-simha Lair):

* **Theme**: Trials of endurance and primal instincts in the midst of darkness.
* **Description**: A network of dark, shadowy tunnels and chambers, challenging the players' resilience and ability to navigate the darkness.
* **Sphinx**: Nisha
* **Personality**: Fierce yet wise, guiding adventurers to tap into their primal instincts and endurance in the face of darkness.
* **Dialogue**: "In the embrace of shadows, one discovers the true depth of their inner strength."

#### Aerenal (Gopaitioshah Lair):

* **Theme**: Trials of empathy and spiritual awareness amidst ancient rites.
* **Description**: A sacred chamber filled with ancient rituals and spiritual challenges, testing the players' empathy and connection with the spirits.
* **Sphinx**: Arya
* **Personality**: Serene and empathetic, guiding adventurers to explore the depths of their spiritual connections and empathy.
* **Dialogue**: "In the harmony of spirits, one finds the true essence of their own existence."

#### Mror Holds (Lamassu Lair):

* **Theme**: Tests of tradition and honor through ancient dwarven challenges.
* **Description**: An elaborate series of tunnels and chambers adorned with dwarven relics, challenging the players' adherence to ancient dwarven customs and honor.
* **Sphinx**: Durgan
* **Personality**: Resolute and honorable, pushing adventurers to prove their worth through adherence to the ancient dwarven ways.
* **Dialogue**: "In the forge of tradition, the truest strength of character is tempered."

#### Everice (Snow Lion Lair):

* **Theme**: Challenges of resilience and adaptability in the unforgiving cold.
* **Description**: A vast icy cavern filled with treacherous terrains and icy obstacles, testing the players' resilience in the face of extreme cold.
* **Sphinx**: Hrimar
* **Personality**: Stoic yet nurturing, guiding adventurers to harness the power of resilience and adaptability in the midst of the unforgiving cold.
* **Dialogue**: "In the embrace of the icy winds, one discovers the warmth of their own resilience."

### References

* https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Sphinx
* https://keith-baker.com/dm-sphinxes/
