 #adventure [[Sarlona]]

### Background and Hook(s)

>The cradle of humanity, Sarlona is a land whose history and present are steeped in conflict. Around the bonfires of the nomadic Syrks, lost legends of sorcerer-kings and devastating magewars are passed from one generation to the next. Myths of the yuan-ti and the Age of Fiends are whispered among the Keepers of the Word and the Heirs of Ohr Kaluun alike.
>Centuries of the continent's history belonged to the Inspired and the Unity of Riedra, but everything changed one day when the age of Dal Quor turned, killing all of the quori and devastating the government that once held a vice grip on almost the entire population. In the last few decades things have started to settle, but the Ten Kingdoms of the new continent are a far cry from Riedra.

### Characters and Locations

* 

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  A day in the life of each character in their home nation.
	Any details that come up during that vignette are canon for that nation, so work to establish cultural customs, locations, people, etc.

 - [ ]  Introduction of at least two major NPCs.

 - [ ]  Receive notification that someone in Sharn is looking for adventurers from Sarlona (and Sarlona only).

 - [ ]  Travel to Khorvaire.

 - [ ]  If any player doesn't take the hook to leave home for Sharn, then their hometown is attacked by a group of Obsidian dragons. Otherwise, they can hear about an Obsidian dragon attack on one of the other kingdoms (the same one where the final sphinx resides) on their way to Khorvaire.

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  Shae Mordai was destroyed on 20 Barrakas 1002. Rumors have spread that the Obsidian Dragons of Argonnessen may have been involved.
 - [ ]  Since then, all the other Dragons of Argonnessen have become a more regular sight throughout Eberron.
 - [ ]  Mysterious creatures known as sphinxes have been seen much more since then as well.

### DM Notes



### Random Tables



### References
