 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* Tahorep informs the players that Shae Mordai was an important elven city, and that many of the elves who survived and fled likely landed in Valenar.

### Characters and Locations

* **Theme**: Tests of courage and strength in the face of adversity.
* **Description**: An ancient coliseum filled with towering statues and harrowing obstacles, challenging the players to confront their deepest fears and exhibit unyielding courage.
* **Item(s)**: Blue [[Dragon Mask]]
* **Sphinx**: Valrok (Equisphinx)
	* **Personality**: Fearless and relentless, demanding that adventurers face their inner fears and find strength in the face of adversity.
	* **Dialogue**: "To conquer fear is to embrace the truest form of strength. Stand resolute, and let courage be your guiding light."
* [[Gunnora]]

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  Taer Valior (nearby city)
	Medium-sized fort city with basic shops, armorers, and weapon smiths. Can also introduce Gunnora here.

 - [ ]  Approaching Blade Coliseum (Blade Desert)
	Inside the coliseum, the arena is quartered into four sections. The final section contains a staircase that leads to an underground chamber serving as the Sphinx's lair.
>An ancient but once grand coliseum stands as a testament to the courage and valor of ancient warriors. Massive sandstone walls rise high above, adorned with faded murals depicting epic battles and tales of triumph. Torch sconces line the walls, casting flickering shadows that dance across the ground. 

 - [ ]  Pillars of Peril
	As the players enter the coliseum, they see an open space dominated only by towering stone pillars. Each pillar can be climbed with a successful DC 14 Athletics or Acrobatics check. A successful DC 12 Investigation check (made with disadvantage from the ground) reveals ropes that connect the pillars to each other and to the far wall. Immediately after the players arrive, a group (one for each member of the party, or 1d6) of insectoid monsters enter the chamber. Roll a d6 on each of the Kruthik's turns - on an even number it uses its Multiattack, and on an odd number it takes its action to burrow through the nearest pillar with a PC on it (weakening the pillar and increasing the DC of any Athletics/Acrobatics checks by one).
	`encounter: 1d6: Adult Kruthik`

 - [ ]  Pit of Bravery: Taming the Elemental Flame
	This chamber is filled with an uncontrolled elemental flame. Players must subdue or harness the flame's power to advance. They can use spells, skills, or magical items to pacify the flame or redirect its energy into braziers. Players may use various spells (like Control Flames, Create Water) or skills (like Arcana or Persuasion) to control the elemental flame. Failure might result in taking fire damage or triggering the flame to spread.

 - [ ]  Gates of Valor
	This chamber is composed of a series of two massive gates blocking the path forward. To proceed, players must succeed in a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check to lift them or search for the gate's hidden mechanism with a DC 15 Investigation check. In between the two gates is a large 18 foot pit, which may be traversed by creating a magical bridge of some sort of by jumping across (long jump distance equal to Strength score),

 - [ ]  The Abyss of Fear
	The final challenge lies in a vast chamber shrouded in magical darkness (so artificial light sources don't work, but darkvision does). This area tests the players' courage in the face of their deepest fears, with unseen adversaries lurking in the shadows. Immediately have PCs roll initiative. On each turn, roll a d4, with a 1 resulting in a shadow finding that character (see below). PCs can do anything they would like (as usual) in addition to the below options:
	* PCs who cannot see may make a DC 10 Perception check to ascertain the location of any shadows. Failure results in one of the shadows finding that character.
	* Any PC may make a DC 12 Survival check (at disadvantage if they can't see) to attempt to find the exit. Three successful (non-sequential) checks are needed to find it.
	When a shadow finds a PC, they must make a DC 10 Charisma saving throw. On a failure, they become overwhelmed with fear and must describe one of their character's fears.

 - [ ]  Chamber of the Fearless Guardian


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  Several elves who barely escaped Shae Mordai alive are certain that the attack was performed by Obsidian dragons. But no one has seen any Obsidian dragons since.

### DM Notes

* 

### Random Tables



### References
