 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Archive is potentially infinite in its scope and complexity, touching — however tangentially — on every library built, that ever has been built, or that ever might be built. Any knowledge can be had within its labyrinthine corridors, if you find the right book. Whatever information the players might need, the Archive has it, if they only venture in. Of course, the Archive is not without its perils. The Archive forms a network of sub-dimensional corridors and rooms, structured eerily like a traditional dungeon. And, of course, there are residents. Strange creatures adapted to the academic environment. Often mad, often frighteningly intelligent, often hostile. An expedition into the Archive is no trivial thing, and all manner of academics, archivists, and researchers have been lost in its depths.
* The Archive is inhabited by its own peculiar race of custodians, known only as the Librarians. Diminutive figures, clad in figure-concealing robes, they rarely speak or interact with visitors, instead hurrying about their tasks. Perhaps The Archive created them to inhabit it — every library must have librarians, after all. They tend to its structures like gardeners almost, and pursue esoteric goals.

### Characters and Locations

* **Red Order Librarians** see to it that the physical structures of the Archive are maintained: that the shelves don’t break, that the Archive’s corridors don’t catch fire, and that the ceiling stays up.
* **Yellow Order Librarians** tend to the books themselves, repairing and restoring them as necessary.
* **Black Order Librarians** take care of the Archive’s doorways. Whilst this covers the doors within the Archive itself, it also deals with the doorways out into the real world. They keep the doors open (or at least openable) on their side, and construct further doors into the real world wherever sufficient knowledge accumulates.
* **White Order Librarians** deal with corralling souls. The Archive attracts visitors, and is not without its dangers. The White Order Librarians collect and manage these souls, filing them away as if they were perfectly normal books. These souls — now compressed into a simple, easily managed form — become Phantoms.
* **Grey Order Librarians** see to it that the Great Calculation is continued, maintaining the Calculation Engines, Phantom Databanks and the Sheol Computer itself.

### Scenes and Situations

#### Auditorium

- A LARGE ROOM EMPTY OF BOOKSHELVES, SEMI-CIRCULAR IN SHAPE. In the middle of the flat side, there is a small stage with a desk and behind it a large blackboard. Around this in half-circles are rings of benches, each row a few feet higher than the one in front.

#### Boiler Room

- A ROOM DEVOID OF BOOKSHELVES. Against one wall, a huge black-iron furnace, over which a tank of water boils. Large pipes channel the steam elsewhere in the Archive.
	- If the boiler itself is broken (which will take some skilled sabotage, or 20 damage in one go), it ruptures and bursts, dealing 4D6 damage to all in the room.
	- Steam vents on the front of the boiler or the pipes that snake away from it can be damaged or released: the blast of steam that issues deals D6 damage. Save vs Dragon Breath for half damage. Damage to the steam pipes has a similar result.

#### Calculation Engine

- THE SHELVES GIVE WAY TO A HUGE MACHINE MADE OF CLOCKWORK AND STEAM PUMPS. Incredibly complex, the machine hisses, creaks, clicks, and turns.
	- There is a terminal in the front-centre of the Calculation Engine. Tiles that can be pushed, marked with letters A-Z, numbers 0-9, and punctuation. Above the tiles, there is a slot from which emerges a long ribbon of paper that winds down into a pile on the floor, like ticker-tape. A mechanical pen writes onto the paper ribbon as it’s extruded.

> [!info] Calculation Engine
> It is, effectively, a mechanical computer, using gears and valves rather than electrical components. It is only one part of a much greater whole that lies in a huge network spread throughout The Archive.

- Pushing a tile results in a series of clicks, and new wheels within the machine starting to turn. You can type things into the engine using these tiles.
	- Anything the players type in is put into the Calculation Engine. The output will be written on the paper ribbon, extruded out into the pile. The players can read the response, which will vary depending on what input they used.
	- If the players input a fact that is known to be true (which is to say, correctly recorded as factual in any book anywhere in the world), the response is: "Data Confirmed"
	- If the players input a fact that is known to be false (which is to say, correctly refuted in any book anywhere in the world), the response is: "Data Contradictory"
	- If the players input a question that has an answer in any book anywhere in the world, the machine responds by naming the closest book which contains an answer.
		- They get +1 Progress if the question asked is related to the information they are looking for.
		- This +1 Progress applies for each related question they ask, each getting the response of a new book, until they have a list of 6 books (a total of +6 Progress). After this, the Calculation Engine begins to repeat the same books.
	- If the players input a question to which no answer is recorded in any book anywhere in the world, the response is: "Data Not Found".
	- If the players input anything which is neither a stated fact nor a question, the response is: "Unknown Input. RECALIBRATING"
- The Calculation Engine is attended to by `dice:1d4` Grey Order Librarians at all times. If they are slain or removed, more will arrive within a turn.

#### Catalogue of Contents

- CHAINED ONTO A LECTERN, A SINGLE HUGE CATALOGUE WITH PAGES THE SIZE OF A HUMAN TORSO, BOUND IN BLACK LEATHER. The catalogue lists what books are stored nearby, and where. The instructions and directions given are confusing to follow; the PCs can get a picture of what’s nearby but actually tracking things down will be difficult.
- Consulting it for a turn allows one of the following benefits:
	- Increase the party’s Progress Score by 5. This benefit can be gained only once for each piece of information sought.
	- Roll a random Extraordinary Book. The next time the party discovers an Extraordinary Book, this will be with it. Subsequent rolls determine the book after that, and so on. Once the party rolls the same Extraordinary Book a second time, that is all that can be found.

#### Chained Lectern

- AN ORNATE LECTERN, RAISED ON A SLIGHT PLATFORM. On it, open, is a large book. Each corner of the book’s cover is fastened to the lectern, and the lectern is bolted to the floor. When nobody is observing it, it gives a soft creak or gentle rattle, as if straining against restraints.
- Roll on the Extraordinary Books Table for what the book on the lectern is. This version, however, is dangerous. Reading it results in paper-cuts as the pages twist awkwardly beneath your fingers, dealing 1 damage for each turn spent reading.
- If two corners of the book are unfastened (perhaps in order to remove it), the book animates and rips itself free of its bindings.

`encounter: 1: Furious Book` (translate monster stat block, or find a similar one in an existing book)

#### Chapel

- A LONG ROOM SUPPOSEDLY DEDICATED TO RELIGIOUS DEVOTION. A high, arched ceiling, supported by pillars. Rows of pews, and at the front a pulpit before the altar.
- The pulpit has a small lectern built in with an Extraordinary Book resting on it. Roll on the Extraordinary Books Table.
- The altar is a simple affair, with the suitable trappings of a common faith — maybe a crucifix and candles, perhaps a bowl and sacrificial knife, depending on the religion.
- Under the altar, there are a few stored trinkets. Roll on the Treasure Table.

#### Dissection Theatre

- A SURGICAL TABLE SITS IN THE CENTRE OF THIS ROOM, ILLUMINATED BY BRIGHT LIGHTS AND SURROUNDED BY SEATING FOR SPECTATORS. This is a space where researchers can take apart bodies (alive or dead) to see what’s inside them. Sometimes there’s an audience when this happens, but there’s always a Grey Order Librarian taking notes.
- Roll when PCs arrive. There’s a 1-in-4 chance the subject is still alive.


| d4  | Who's Present                                                                                |
| --- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Nobody                                                                                       |
| 2   | Pair of black order librarians preparing for or cleaning up after a dissection               |
| 3   | Neurovore performing a dissection, watched by `dice:2d4` visitors and a grey order librarian |
| 4   | Archivist-lich performing a dissection, observed only by a grey order librarian              |

| d12 | What's Being Dissected          |
| --- | ------------------------------- |
| 1   | human baby                      |
| 2   | monkey                          |
| 3   | large spider                    |
| 4   | pregnant ape                    |
| 5   | injured human youth             |
| 6   | eldery human                    |
| 7   | goat                            |
| 8   | large shark                     |
| 9   | egg of a huge serpent           |
| 10  | vampire, staked to keep dormant |
| 11  | lobotomized elf                 |
| 12  | octopus                         |

#### Display Case

- A GLASS-FRONTED CASE DISPLAYING VALUABLE OR INTERESTING EXHIBITS. Anything on display is either very old, very rare, or from very far away; possibly even all three. As a result, if taken and sold to a collector in the real world, the items on display are worth at least 100 silver multiplied by the display’s Depth.
- Roll to determine what is being displayed.

| d20 | Items Exhibited                                                                                         |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | butterflies pinned to cards                                                                             |
| 2   | snake skins                                                                                             |
| 3   | various bits of a dead saint: teeth, fingerbones, bits of hair. enough to reconstruct them if assembled |
| 4   | exotic hats                                                                                             |
| 5   | dried, pressed flowers                                                                                  |
| 6   | deep-sea fish, squid, jellyfish and worms, all in jars of slightly yellow-tinted preservative           |
| 7   | spiders pinned to cards, their webs encased in blocks of glass                                          |
| 8   | interesting shoes                                                                                       |
| 9   | surgical tools through the ages                                                                         |
| 10  | ancient pottery and glassware                                                                           |
| 11  | glass eyes                                                                                              |
| 12  | candlesticks and lamps                                                                                  |
| 13  | ancient coins                                                                                           |
| 14  | signet rings of various noble houses, from exotic lands or the distant past                             |
| 15  | fabulous masks                                                                                          |
| 16  | paraphernalia for consuming narcotics                                                                   |
| 17  | prosthetic limbs                                                                                        |
| 18  | vials of blood from various animals                                                                     |
| 19  | samples of strange rocks and minerals                                                                   |
| 20  | exotic herbs and spices                                                                                 |

#### Entrance Foyer

- A SMALL ROOM, LIT WITH CANDLES, FURNISHED WITH MAHOGANY AND BRASS. Seating and a ‘Wait Here’ sign. A desk facing toward the real world for The Archive's staff.
- 50% chance the desk is currently manned by a Black Order Librarian.
- On the desk, there’s a bell to ring for attention.
- Roll an Encounter for what turns up every time the players ring it.

#### Furnace

- A METAL CHAMBER FILLED WITH COAL BURNS FIERCELY, its heat used elsewhere to power steam engines or warm The Archive.
- Opening the shutters to the furnace produces a blast of hot air that deals `dice:1d6` fire damage to those directly in front of it.
- Actually going inside the furnace does `dice:4d6` fire damage per round.

#### Help Desk

- IN AN ALCOVE, A SMALL DESK LADEN WITH PAPERS. Shelves behind it stuffed with more paperwork. Lit by an oil lamp. The paperwork is largely useless to the PCs. It details things like supplies in The Archive, rotas for the Librarians, etc.
- There’s enough useful information here, however, that it can help PCs find specific information. Each turn spent going through the records increases Progress by 1, to a maximum of +3.
- 75% chance that the desk is manned by a Yellow Order Librarian. The Librarian is, in fact, genuinely helpful.

#### Holding Pen

- WITHIN THIS ROOM IS A HUGE GLASS VAT, LIKE A FISH TANK. Copper tubes connect it to the rest of The Archive’s plumbing. A single brass hatch is set in one side; it can be opened from the outside but not from within. The hatch is locked.
- Within, there are `dice:1d10` Phantoms hanging like oily smears in the air. If the PCs seek the soul of a specific person, there’s a 1-in-10 chance that one of the Phantoms encountered here is that soul.
- Each turn, either `dice:1d4` more Phantoms arrive in the pen, deposited by the tubes, or `dice:1d4` are sucked out into The Archive’s plumbing.
- There’s a 50% chance that the first encounter here will be with `dice:1d6` White Order Librarians.

#### Infernal Gateway

- THIS ROOM CONTAINS A SINGLE HUGE HORRIBLE DOORWAY IN ADDITION TO THE NORMAL EXITS. Made of gnarled dark wood set into a stone frame, with black iron hinges and a sturdy lock. The whole thing — door, frame and lock — is engraved with the sort of horrible sigils that hurt to look at for too long. The doorway leads to Khyber.
- Each turn, there is a chance that a Daelkyr will come through the doorway. This chance depends on ...?

#### Ink Vats

- LARGE BRASS VATS OF INK, THE TOPS OPEN TO THE AIR, STIRRED SLOWLY BY A CLOCKWORK WHISK THAT HANGS FROM THE CEILING. Five vats total, containing black, red, green, blue and infernal ink. On the sides of each vat is a tap, labelled, that allows you to refill an inkwell or bottle from the vat.
- 1 Black Ink is mundane.
- 2 Red Ink stings when touched: anything written with it on flesh appears as if it were a birthmark or scar.
- 3 Green Ink permanently stains anything it touches, and can never be washed off.
- 4 Blue Ink is invisible during the daytime.
- 5 Infernal Ink can be used to write infernal contracts. Any contract written in this ink is magically binding. Every signatory on the contract instinctively knows if anybody else has broken the contract as soon as it happens.
- 1-in-6 chance that any encounter here will be with an Ink Elemental oozing out of the vats.

#### Jarred Brains

- THE SHELVES HERE ARE LINED WITH GLASS JARS, EACH FILLED WITH A CLEAR FLUID. An intact human brain floats in the fluid, with wires linking where the spinal column would be to a small mechanism set in the jar’s base. Each jar is labelled to say whose brain it contains, and when they were interred.
- Each jar’s fluid is a nutrient solution designed to keep the brain within alive. Occasionally, a bubble rises to the surface as the jar’s mechanisms keep the fluid oxygenated. The mechanism links to a small metal grille in the front of the jar; this is how the brain within communicates in a tinny, staticky voice. The brains are torpid and dormant as the PCs enter, but can be roused by shaking their jars or speaking directly into the grille at the front of their jar, for example.
- Of the brains present, at least one will be an intellectual figure (recent or historical) known to the PCs. There’s a 1-in-4 chance that it’s somebody directly connected to the subject of the PCs’ research. Conversing with this figure might answer all sorts of questions, and adds 4 to the party’s Progress if their area of knowledge is relevant. Being stuck in a jar has almost certainly given the brain a long time to spend in self-reflection with little external stimulus. It has no doubt become deeply strange in its outlook and priorities.
- The remaining brains are split roughly evenly between those incapable of intelligible communication due to language barriers, those incapable of intelligible communication due to total jar-induced madness, those unable to be roused from their torpor, and those with little worth saying.
- A Jarred Brain exists in a weird state halfway between life and death. It is affected just as easily by magic that affects the living, the dead and the undead.
- 1-in-4 encounters here will always be with Floating Brains.

#### Map Gallery

- A NUMBER OF MAPS ON THE WALLS, IN PICTURE FRAMES. Some depict familiar lands. Others, more exotic places, such as demiplanes of Khyber.
- There’s a 1-in-6 chance that there’s a map of any particular exotic country that the PCs might wish to explore in the future or have visited in the past.
- If the PCs are looking for information about an exotic location, observing the Map Gallery for a turn will give them clues: they add 2 to their Progress.

#### Mausoleum

- AMONG THE BOOKSHELVES, A LARGE STONE SARCOPHAGUS. A rectangular block of stone, carved into rococo flutes and scrolls. The top has an inscription, and can be lifted up. Within, there is a skeletal corpse.
- Roll twice on the Treasure Table to see what was interred with them.

#### Mummy Vault

- THIS IS WHERE DEAD LIBRARIANS GO. Each is dried out, treated with the same chemicals used to preserve the books, and wrapped in a tight shroud. The shelves are packed with little corpses swaddled up in off-white grave cloths. It smells of natron and vinegar.
- The dead Librarians won’t rise, ever.

#### Ossuary

- A COLLECTION OF BONES PACKED TETRIS-STYLE INTO SIX GLASS-FRONTED DISPLAY CASES. Each neatly labelled with who it was taken from, when it was taken, the circumstances of their death, and what killed them.
- Of the bones present, only a handful are from somebody interesting enough to be of value. There are `dice:1d4` interesting bones in each case, each bone worth 10 Silver multiplied by the location’s Depth.
- Trying to remove the bones requires smashing open or unlocking the display cases. This releases the Bone Beast within: an animated swarm of bones of indistinct formation that behaves like a cross between a swarm of hornets and a small landslide. Just hundreds of bones all battering whoever tried to steal from them.
- Once the Bone Beast is defeated, the party can take the valuable bones from that cabinet.

#### Paper Beehive

- THE ROOM HERE IS INFESTED WITH VERMIN: BEES THE SIZE OF A HUMAN HAND. They built a hive against one wall out of papier-mâché, layers of pages built up into a blister-like nest twelve feet across that stretches from floor to ceiling. Although the entrances the bees use are only a few inches across, you can get into the beehive pretty easily, simply by cutting through its paper walls. Within, chambers the size of a human head contain eggs, larvae, dormant bees, and the Black Honey that the bees make. If the entire hive is ransacked, there are 6 pints of Black Honey inside.
- Black Honey is made without flowers. Instead, the bees harvest ink from open books and blood from corpses. Over time, the bees condense and refine the Honey, producing a substance dense with magical potential. There are 20 mouthfuls of honey in the hive
- Roll for anybody who consumes a mouthful.
- THERE ARE 2d6 BEES ON GUARD IN THE ROOM. So long as the PCs don’t harm the guard Bees or their hive, the Bees will ignore them. If a fight starts, `dice:1d8` bees emerge from the hive each round. The first time an 8 is rolled, 8 Bees emerge and their Queen comes with them.

| d8  | What Changes                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | consumer can speak to and understand any insects, mundane or otherwise                                                                                                                                                 |
| 2   | consumer can see into the ultraviolet spectrum, allowing them to see through most camouflage and to perceive electrical charges by the ultraviolet glow they produce                                                   |
| 3   | consumer’s skeleton becomes brittle. -2 maximum hp permanently, to a minimum of 1                                                                                                                                      |
| 4   | subtle yellow-and-black bands appear on the consumer’s skin                                                                                                                                                            |
| 5   | consumer sprouts a stinger over the course of the next few days. it can be used once as a weapon, doing 2d12 damage to both the victim and the consumer (the stinger is wrenched free, bringing their viscera with it) |
| 6   | consumer’s body becomes light and filled with hollow spaces. halve all falling damage                                                                                                                                  |
| 7   | consumer sprouts two pairs of transparent wings from their shoulder blades, allowing them to hover a few feet above the floor                                                                                          |
| 8   | consumer’s skin hardens into a brittle exoskeleton, giving +1 AC                                                                                                                                                       |

#### Phantom Databanks

- THE ROOM CONTAINS A SET OF SHELVES AGAINST ONE WALL. Each shelf holds a row of glass jars. Each jar has a set of wires emerging from it, linking it to a small machine at the end of each shelf that displays the pressure, temperature, emotional state and acidity of each jar’s contents on a set of dials.
- There are 30 jars in total.
- 24 contain a phantom, the rest are currently empty. Each phantom appears as a condensed mist, thrashing wildly, flickering with colors and patterns, glowing slightly.
- Opening a jar releases the contained Phantom. It doesn’t really want things or have a sense of self, but it is compressed unnaturally in the jar, and will expand to its full size (about that of a human) when released. A newly released Phantom is agitated and energetic. Whilst it does not have enough awareness of its surroundings to attack, it will almost certainly cause problems.

#### Phantom Pumps

- A HUGE STEAM-POWERED MACHINE IS BUILT INTO THE WALL OF THIS ROOM, MADE OF BLACK IRON, ALL TUBES AND PISTONS AND VALVES. It serves to pump phantoms around The Archive to where they’re needed. The whole contraption clanks and groans constantly as it moves.
- There’s a control panel nearby, with various dials, switches and levers to control what phantoms the pumps send where. A single White Order Librarian is here, manning the controls.

#### Planetarium

- A HIGH, DOMED CEILING, ONTO WHICH LANTERNS PROJECT DOTS OF LIGHT THAT RESEMBLE ALIEN CONSTELLATIONS. In the center of the room, a large clockwork orrery modelling the solar system. A lamp burning in the center, and long arms that hold model planets, moons and comets in place. The whole thing clicks and grinds as it slowly turns.
- The Planetarium moves to accurately represent the position of the celestial bodies outside in the real world. It can, however, be manually reset to a past or future position of the celestial bodies.
- Bookshelves at ground level contain information on astronomy and astrology. Anybody who uses the planetarium to cast an astrological horoscope for the subject of information they are seeking adds `dice:1d6` to their Progress.
- Furthermore, if they roll 1d20 under their Intelligence, they may ask a single yes-or-no question about the subject of the horoscope and get an accurate answer.
- Lastly, resetting the position of the orrery has a distorting effect on the time-stream. Those present find their state reset to the time shown on the orrery.
	- If they set it to a point in the past, then the consequences of events after that point are negated for those present — injuries disappear, curses were never bestowed, healing never happened, etc.
	- Likewise, if set forward, then any healing, ageing, disease, etc. that might happen in the time set forward occurs immediately. The time-stream for the rest of the world remains unaffected; only the PCs skip back or forward in time.

#### Printing Machine

- A LARGE, STEAM-POWERED PRINTING PRESS, ITS OPERATION AUTOMATED. It is plumbed into the larger structure of The Archive, powered by high-pressure steam piped in from the boilers. It produces replacement pages, important paperwork, etc., which slide from the printing press and into collection baskets. It creaks, clatters and grinds as it works. It’s in constant motion, and the piles of paper it produces build up over time.

#### Reading Lounge

- A COMFORTABLE ROOM, WITH RICHLY UPHOLSTERED COUCHES, AND ELEGANT COFFEE TABLES. Cigar smoke and notebooks.
- 50% chance that any encounter here will be with Visitors, Researchers, Lost Souls or Archivist-Liches.

#### SHEOL COMPUTER

- THE SHEOL COMPUTER IS THE HEART OF THE ARCHIVE, THE VAST MACHINE WHOSE CALCULATION DRIVES EVERYTHING ELSE THAT HAPPENS HERE. The computer fills the entire room. It’s mostly a tangle of thin glass tubes and valves through which phantoms flow like electricity through a computer’s circuit-boards. Other more odd components are present, though. There are a few each of:
	- Clockwork engines that tick up the count of souls in the machine.
	- Human brains wired into the computer.
	- Collections of dials and displays, allowing the White Order Librarians to monitor the computer’s workings.
- There’s also one each of the following components:
	- A huge canvas screen with text projected onto it that reflects what the computer is currently working on. The text flickers and scrolls past almost too fast to make out.
	- A keyboard, with the letters A-Z, numbers 0-9, and punctuation, which can be used to input text into the computer. If text is input with the keyboard, it appears on the screen, followed by the computer’s response. The possible inputs and responses are all of those for the Calculation Engine.
- ALSO:
	- If the players include a dead person’s name in their input, the computer will state their date and cause of death.
	- If the players include a living person’s name in their input, the computer will state their most likely cause of death and then: "DATE UNKNOWN".
		- For PCs, pick a cause of death that is most likely for that PC. The character takes maximum damage from that danger, always fails all Saves against it, is always the first affected by it, etc.
	- If the players include the name of a deity, demon, angel, fairy or other immortal being in their input, the computer will list the date of their death as the accurate date of the end of the world, and the cause as "ARMAGEDDON".
	- If the players ask about the purpose of The Archive or the Sheol Computer, it simply answers: "ENTROPIC TRANSCENDENCE".
- `dice:1d8` White Order Librarians attend to the Sheol Computer at all times. Damaging the Computer earns the enmity of all Librarians, forever.

#### Skeleton Collection

- AROUND A DOZEN SKELETONS IN GLASS CASES. Wired into position. Labelled neatly.

| d10 | Skeletons Present     |
| --- | --------------------- |
| 1   | Babies                |
| 2   | Children              |
| 3   | Human adults          |
| 4   | Human mutants         |
| 5   | Birds                 |
| 6   | Snakes                |
| 7   | Long-extinct monsters |
| 8   | Fish                  |
| 9   | Giants                |
| 10  | Apes                  |

#### Spider Trapdoor

- UNDER THE FLOOR OF THIS LOCATION, THERE LURKS A HUGE SPIDER, AN AMBUSH-PREDATOR ADAPTED TO THE ARCHIVE’S ENVIRONMENT. It can lift up a section of floor, and emerge to grab prey, dragging it down to feed. It’s burrow is just big enough to fit itself, and a few prey (either bundled up ready to eat, or still being subdued).
- When the players first enter this location, describe the floorboards as being a little uneven, and that there are strands of cobweb over the floor. This is the only clue they get. If they test the floor, tell them there is a hollow space beneath. If they don’t think to check, it’s their own fault when they get ambushed.
- The Spider can sense the footsteps of those walking above it as vibrations and sound. It knows how many are present, if any are injured, and how heavy they all are. From this, it can make a good guess as to who makes the best victim. Typically, this will be whoever is bringing up the rear. Sometimes, it waits for a group of victims to disperse to explore the room, and grabs somebody who stands over its pit undefended.
- When the Spider makes its move, a section of floorboards lift up, and its front half (face and front legs) emerges from beneath. It grabs its victim and tries to drag them into its pit, closing the lid behind it.
- It makes a single surprise attack. If the attack hits, the victim is pulled into the Spider’s pit and takes damage.
- Furthermore, there is a 50% chance that the Spider does this quietly enough that (unless the victim states that they cry out) nobody notices it has happened unless they’re looking at the victim.
- Inside the Spider’s pit, there are various valuables taken from its previous victims. Roll on the Treasure Table.

`encounter: 1: Giant Spider`

#### Statuary

- A LONG GALLERY, FILLED WITH SEVERAL DOZEN STATUES ON PEDESTALS. Each life-size. Most reclining, seated or otherwise relaxed. Each worth 300 Silver multiplied by the room’s Depth; being a life-sized statue, getting one out will be tricky.
- If the party is looking for a specific person, 50% chance there’s a statue of them here.
- Any corpse brought here slowly turns to stone over the course of a turn. Anybody sleeping or unconscious here likewise turns to stone after a night-cycle’s worth of sleep.
- The statues all have a neat brass plate on their pedestal, detailing the subject.
- If looking for information about a historical figure, 50% chance there’s a statue of them here; if so, increase the Progress by 1.

#### Steam Vents

- HERE, THE STEAM PIPES THAT THREAD THROUGH THE ARCHIVE ARE EXPOSED. A large valve is set into the wall that can be opened or closed by turning a huge wheel.
- If the valve is opened, the steam from the pipes vents into the room, dealing `dice:1d6` fire damage to everybody present as it scalds them and filling the room with blinding fog.
- Even if the vents aren’t fully opened, smaller pressure valves constantly release little bursts of steam into the room. The air is humid, hot, and thick with mist, allowing those present to re-roll failed rolls to hide in the mist.
- Because of the damp air, the books here are all protected by a thin layer of wax, or else etched into paper-thin sheets of metal. Bringing in normal paper books ruins them rapidly.

#### Storage Vault

- BEHIND A CLOSED, LOCKED DOOR, THE MATERIAL TREASURES OF THE ARCHIVE ARE STORED. The door’s lock will need to be picked, or the door broken down, to get in. Within, there’s a wealth of materials in marked cases.
- Roll twice on the Treasure Table for items of particular interest that are here. In addition, there are rare materials — pigments, silk, semiprecious stones, etc. — worth 100 silver multiplied by the Depth of the room. Lastly, roll three times to see what Mundane Materials are stored here.

| d20 | Mundane Materials                       |
|-----|-----------------------------------------|
| 1   | Sheaves of blank paper                  |
| 2   | Janitorial equipment                    |
| 3   | Sealing wax                             |
| 4   | Unused furniture                        |
| 5   | Woodworking tools                       |
| 6   | Empty glass globes and bottles          |
| 7   | Candles                                 |
| 8   | Sawdust                                 |
| 9   | Ladders                                 |
| 10  | Paint and brushes                       |
| 11  | Hooded monastic robes of the librarians |
| 12  | Barrels full of human teeth             |
| 13  | Dyed leather                            |
| 14  | Salt                                    |
| 15  | Glass tubes                             |
| 16  | Pens and stationery                     |
| 17  | Metalworking tools                      |
| 18  | Books that need repairing               |
| 19  | Books that need replacing               |
| 20  | Vats of ice                             |

#### Stuffed Animals

- A GALLERY FULL OF TAXIDERMIED ANIMALS, DISPLAYED ALONGSIDE DETAILED INFORMATION. The animals are all interesting in some way: rare, foreign, extinct, mythical.
- If looking for information about a particular type of animal or legendary beast, 50% chance there’s a taxidermied example here. If so, increase the Progress by 1.

#### Syphon of Phantoms

- IN THE CENTRE OF THIS ROOM IS A HOLLOW METAL CONE, NARROW AT ITS BASE AND BROAD AT THE TOP, RIDDLED WITH HOLES THE SIZE OF A FINGER. The whole thing is like a huge sea-sponge or coral made of etched metal. The hollow space within the conical Syphon is filled with glass vials. Some are empty, some contain condensed phantoms like a wriggling turquoise mist. Thin glass tubes and wires link the vials to one another and to the exposed plumbing of The Archive, like some huge alchemist’s distillery. Whenever somebody dies in The Archive, their soul is inexorably drawn towards the Syphon. While they may only drift a few feet closer each day, the Syphon acts like the nearly inescapable gravity well of a black hole in the spiritual plane. A few souls, not yet converted to phantoms, can be seen hanging in the air as dim shimmers, oozing closer to the Syphon, inch-by-inch. A soul sucked into the syphon is drawn through its various channels and tubes, compressed and distorted and rendered down by the process until only a phantom remains. Once this process is complete (which takes a few minutes) the machine gives a cheerful “DING!” and another glass vial is filled with the new phantom.
- The room’s thanatropic machinery constantly tugs at your soul. Death comes easily here.
- Whenever damage is taken in this room, the Syphon deals 1 additional damage the next round as it attempts to pull vulnerable souls free of their fleshy homes.

#### Tea Room

- A SMALL, WELL FURNISHED ROOM. Comfortable chairs, low tables. Cozy. To one side, there’s tables against the wall with food and drink, and the chinaware and cutlery required. Roll three times on the table below for what food & drink is present.
- Every time the party visits the room, re-roll what food is present; Red Order Librarians (113) restock the room periodically.

| d10 | Food & Drink               |
| --- | -------------------------- |
| 1   | scones, jam and cream      |
| 2   | cake                       |
| 3   | sandwiches                 |
| 4   | port and sherry            |
| 5   | cheese and biscuits        |
| 6   | tea                        |
| 7   | cocktails                  |
| 8   | coffee                     |
| 9   | fried breakfasts           |
| 10  | pastries, croissants, etc. |

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- When the players first enter The Archive:
	- 1. Use the Location Table below to see where the doorway leads.
	- 2. Use the Details Table below for the specifics of the place.
	- 3. Use the Random Events Table below for what’s going on there.
- You’ll map out The Archive every time the players visit it. Take a sheet of paper. In the center, at the top, write in the location where the players entered. This is Layer 0. Here, the players have 3 options:
	- STAY HERE. When the players STAY HERE, they remain in the same Location. Every turn after the first, roll on the Random Events Table.
	- GO DEEPER. When they GO DEEPER, roll 1d20 plus the Depth of the Layer they are travelling to on the Location Table and Details Table. Combine the results: the Location rolled gives you the core idea of the place, the Detail modifies it. The first time they GO DEEPER, that takes them down to Layer 1, so you’ll roll 1d20+1. If they GO DEEPER again from there, that’s Layer 2: 1d20+2. Draw a line from their current Location, leading down, and write the Location they find at the end. From a single Location, the players can GO DEEPER multiple times. Each time they do, draw a line from that Location, branching off.
	- GO BACK. When the players GO BACK, they travel back up the line to a previously visited Location. Probably on the previous layer, but the map can get complex as players double back and find paths linking disparate Locations.
		- From there, they can STAY HERE, GO BACK again, or GO DEEPER again, either to a Location they visited before or to a new Location (roll it up).
		- GOING DEEPER and GOING BACK both take a turn as the players search for pathways.
		- The Archive shifts and rearranges itself. Until the PCs actually look, the next Location exists in a state of quantum uncertainty. There’s no need to roll up Locations ahead of time.
		- Every time players visit The Archive, roll a new starting Location from scratch, and build a new map from there.

| d20+Depth | Location              |
| --------- | --------------------- |
| 1         | Entrance foyer        |
| 2         | Catalogue of contents |
| 3         | Help desk             |
| 4         | Reading lounge        |
| 5         | Chained lectern       |
| 6         | Display case          |
| 7         | Ink vats              |
| 8         | Map gallery           |
| 9         | Boiler room           |
| 10        | Auditorium            |
| 11        | Skeleton collection   |
| 12        | Chapel                |
| 13        | Tea-room              |
| 14        | Statuary              |
| 15        | Stuffed animals       |
| 16        | Mausoleum             |
| 17        | Storage vault         |
| 18        | Planetarium 54        |
| 19        | Calculation engine    |
| 20        | Phantom databanks     |
| 21        | Spider trapdoor       |
| 22        | Printing machine      |
| 23        | Ossuary               |
| 24        | Syphon of phantoms    |
| 25        | Steam vents           |
| 26        | Paper beehive         |
| 27        | Furnace               |
| 28        | Holding pen           |
| 29        | Phantom pumps         |
| 30        | Infernal gateway      |
| 31        | Jarred brains         |
| 32        | Dissection theatre    |
| 33        | Mummy vault           |
| 34        | Sheol computer        |
| 35+       | Re-roll: d20+d12+2    |

| d20+Depth | Detail                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | **Empty**. The shelves are bare, and there is no furniture or fittings. The place is totally empty.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 2         | **Treasure Pile**. On one shelf, a little stack of treasure: `dice:3d6*10` gold coins in various denominations, and roll twice on the Treasure Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 3         | **Notes**. A previous visitor has written something. Perhaps it’s a note pinned to the shelves or a little chapbook to collect their observations. If there’s some threat present, the graffiti warns about it. If there’s something valuable that could be salvaged, the graffiti points it out. Roll three times for what else the graffiti says — each piece is in a different hand (pg 77).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 4         | **Oriental Rug**. A huge Persian rug lies across the floor, ornate in its pattern and probably over a century old. Worth 50 Silver multiplied by the Depth of the location.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 5         | **Candles**. Candles stuck onto the tops of the bookshelves, and on every table. Old, fat, dribbly. Once-molten wax pools and cracks on the floor and forms glossy white speleothems on the walls. Needless to say, the room is well-lit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 6         | **Webs**. The place is thick with cobwebs, stretching across the corridors and over the books themselves. Getting through, or getting to the books, is perfectly easy, since the webs break as soon as you push through them, but it’s a little unpleasant nonetheless. The first encounter here is always with several mundane, harmless spiders                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 7         | **Fireplace**. The location is lit by a roaring fire in a grate, with a bucket of coal nearby, and tongs, pokers, etc. Where the chimney opens out, it’s impossible to say; you’d get stuck or die from smoke inhalation long before you escaped.<br>However, if more than one location has been generated with a fireplace, you can use the chimneys to travel between them. Climb into the chimney of one, and you can climb out of the chimney of the other. If the PCs try this before a second such location is generated, instead it links to a new Location with a fireplace; roll a D12 for Depth and then roll the Location randomly.                                |
| 8         | **Lamp-post**. An iron lamp-post bolted to the floorboards, with a lamp at the top that illuminates the shelves nearby.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 9         | **Gas Lamps**. The Location is lit by a number of gas lamps fixed to the walls, fed gas by delicate copper pipes that run along the skirting-boards. If the gas is let out into the room, it will explode if lit, dealing `dice:3d6` fire damage to everybody present (DC 12 Dex save for half damage).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 10        | **Glass Tubes**. The room is criss-crossed with glass tubes fastened to the ceiling and walls, and that snake over the tops of the shelves. Roll to determine contents (pg 71).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 11        | **Staircase**. The location is built not on a flat floor but on the sides of a long spiral staircase that goes down several hundred feet. The PCs always enter at the top. Anybody falling down the stairs takes `dice:1d6` damage for every 20 feet fallen. Roll to hit to push somebody down the stairs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 12        | **Candlesticks**. The location is lit by candles in big three-pronged candlesticks that can be picked up and carried about.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 13        | **Portcullis**. The location lies behind a huge portcullis that must be broken down or have the lock picked. Cunning or strange solutions could be found — if the party can’t get through, they must go back to the previous location.<br>By way of temptation, roll on the Treasure Table for what can be glimpsed on the other side of the portcullis.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 14        | **Scrolls**. Rather than books, the shelves here hold scrolls rolled neatly and fit into tubular cases.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 15        | **Funeral Urns**. Each shelf ends with a china urn containing the ashes of a former visitor to The Archive, labelled with their name and the date of their death. If the PCs are looking for a specific person, there’s a 1-in-10 chance one of the urns contains their remains (or at least claims to).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 16        | **Turning Gears**. An array of clockwork gears affixed to one wall — some delicate and as small as a thumbtack, some as big as a cartwheel, and all manner somewhere in between — which interlink and turn slowly with an irregular ticking sound. The gears link into a greater mechanism below the floor or above the ceiling.<br>Getting pushed into the gears, or sticking part of yourself in, deals `dice:2d6` damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 17        | **Vault**. The location is within a locked vault, behind a strong iron door. A neat sign above the door summarizes the contents of the vault. To get in, you’ll need to open the door by picking the lock or by some other cunning method; brute force might work, but the chances of success are halved.<br>Once PCs gain access to the vault, they can Go Deeper (11) by leaving it again and continuing down the corridor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 18        | **Chained Books**. The books here are all chained to the shelves — perhaps to prevent theft, or perhaps to prevent them escaping, depending on the nature of the books.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 19        | **Too Small**. The room is sized for people one-third the size of humans. The ceiling is only four feet high and the books, furniture and similar things are likewise smaller. To explore, the PCs (other than children, halflings, etc.) must crawl between the cramped shelves.<br>Things encountered within are sized appropriately, but keep the same stats: the exception is any visitors from outside The Archive, who are too big for the location.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 20        | **Phosphorescent Lamps**. The room is lit by a number of glass orbs suspended from the ceiling, each of which gives off a soft, blue-green glow. The atmosphere is relaxed and cool.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 21        | **Stacked Papers**. Rather than books, the shelves hold stacks of loose papers — mostly forms and documents, formed into piles and tied into blocks with string.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 22        | **Negligible Gravity**. Gravity’s effect is drastically reduced here, much like on the moon. Things drift downwards rather than falling. Nobody ever suffers damage from falling or having things fall on them. Creatures can jump to great heights and long distances; five times farther than normal. Shooting has a -3 penalty to hit (except at point-blank range or with firearms).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 23        | **Silent**. It’s stereotypical for a library, but an air of total silence hangs over the room. Speech is inaudible, and even the loudest noises are barely more than a whisper. Needless to say, this has a number of benefits for entities wishing to be stealthy, but means that the incantations to cast spells are impossible.<br>A spellcaster who tries casting by shouting at the top of their lungs might succeed if they pass a Strength roll (their shouted spell is as loud as a handkerchief hitting the ground). If they fail the roll, they only succeed in damaging their vocal cords — if they have more than 1 HP left, they take 1 damage.                  |
| 24        | **Letters**. Rather than books, the location’s shelves hold stacks of letters, most still in their envelopes.<br>There’s a 1-in-4 chance that, if the PCs are looking for information about a famous person known for their correspondence, there’s a letter addressed to them or written by them present (+1 Progress).<br>If there is, there’s a 1-in-6 chance they can find the reply, and then 1-in-8 they can find the reply to that, etc. +1 Progress for each such letter found.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 25        | **Spirit Illumination**. The room is lit by an ingenious, if subtly disturbing, method. Around the room are glass orbs, each containing a phantom. Each orb is held in a clockwork device which, every few minutes, shakes the orb gently, agitating the phantom within and causing it to produce pulses of light to express its irritation.<br>The room is, therefore, lit by a constantly shifting and flickering glow of different colors that rises and falls as the different phantoms are given a good shake periodically.                                                                                                                                              |
| 26        | **Too Large**. The room is sized for beings twice the size of humans. The ceiling is 30 feet high, and all the books, furniture, etc., are sized for 12-foot-tall people.<br>Any creatures encountered in here (except for those who are also visitors) are likewise double-sized, but keep the same stats.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 27        | **Haunted**. The room contains the echoes of a long-dead individual that has oozed into its structure and now controls the place. Roll to determine the nature of the haunting (pg 72-74).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 28        | **Smoking**. The room is uncomfortably warm. Smoke seeps into the air from cracks in the floorboards, from behind furniture, and from any other crevice or gap. It’s hard to breathe. Each turn a PC spends breathing the hot, smoky air, they take 1 damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 29        | **Spirit Tubes**. The room’s ceiling has a number of glass tubes bolted to it, running the length of the room. Each tube is six inches across and contains a glowing pink mist that surges down the tube like milkshake through a drinking straw. The tubes allow phantoms to be pumped from one part of The Archive to another.<br>Breaking a tube lets out `dice:1d6` Phantoms immediately. Each turn thereafter, another `dice:1d6` Phantoms seep out of the tube in fits and spurts until the tube is mended or blocked up.                                                                                                                                               |
| 30        | **Watchful**. The room is under constant observation. Those present feel like they are constantly being scrutinized, assessed and judged. Set into the corners where wall meets ceiling, there are four dark glass orbs, each one containing a dull purple mist that swirls idly. The mist is a phantom that has been set to watch what happens in the room and remember it, so the Librarians can learn from its observations.<br>Halve the chance of any roll to successfully hide or avoid notice in this Location: it has been set up to minimize hiding spots.                                                                                                           |
| 31        | **Morbid**. Everything here is made of human (or human-ish) remains: shelves built from slats of human bone held together through ingenious joinery, upholstery of human leather. Even the door handles are preserved human hands. Death is a constant presence here. Small animals tend to lie down and die peacefully, and people feel an urge to drift off into dreamless sleep. Increase any damage taken here by 1. Sleeping here heals all lost HP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 32        | **Time-locked**. The room is paused in time. Unless living beings make a conscious effort to move and change things, everything is in stasis. While in the room, time does not progress: diseases and bleeding come to a halt, spells last indefinitely, sleep does not return lost HP, and so forth. Furthermore, any changes made to the room’s layout or contents reset after a turn.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 33        | **Semi-corporeal**. The location’s contents flicker in and out of reality, existing partially in a misty ethereal state and partly in normal physicality.<br>Each round, there is a 50% chance that a particular object in the room is suddenly immaterial. A shelf can be stepped through, a book falls through the holder’s hands, and so forth. Objects in the room remain solid to each other (immaterial books do not fall through immaterial shelves) and the floor, walls and ceiling remain solid at all times.<br>Similarly, any monsters in the room have a 50% chance each round to be immaterial — the room’s contents are also immaterial when this is the case. |
| 34        | **Doorway Out**. The room contains a doorway leading out to the real world. It is set neatly into the wall, largely incongruous but bearing a smart brass plate that states where in the real world it leads to. This location is manned by `dice:1d4` Black Order Librarians 50% of the time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 35+       | **Tangled Passages**. This deep, all that can be found is a maze-like network of largely abandoned passageways. Dust lays over everything, and the books are so ancient as to be almost unreadable. The Librarians rarely come here.<br>Successfully going deeper requires navigating the abandoned labyrinth of shelves. Roll 1d100 under the party’s Progress to do this. If they fail, then this is a dead end — they can only Go Back.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

| 1d20 or 1d12 | Random Events                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1            | Something turns up; it’s unfriendly. Roll on the Encounters Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 2            | Something turns up; it’s merely curious. Roll on the Encounters Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 3            | Something is disturbed while eating or reading. Roll on the Encounters Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 4            | A fight or argument spills into the location. Roll twice on the Encounters Table; they’re already fighting each other before the players get involved.                                                                                                                                                             |
| 5            | Something’s territory is disturbed and it defends its lair, office, etc. Roll on the Encounters Table. If the encounter is with multiple creatures, double the amount.                                                                                                                                             |
| 6            | Something turns up, badly injured, totally lost or otherwise at a disadvantage. Roll on the Encounters Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 7            | Something is returning to its home, office, etc., and is surprised to find the PCs here. Roll on the Encounters Table.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 8            | An unexpected gust of wind extinguishes any exposed flames such as candles or torches.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 9            | The PCs become disoriented and lose track of their position. Reduce their Progress by 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 10           | An ominous ticking can be heard from beneath the floorboards. Nothing happens yet. Next time you would roll on the Random Events Table in this Location, roll twice instead.                                                                                                                                       |
| 11           | Footprints, litter, notes, & other signs of passage. Roll on the Encounters Table to see what left them. The next Encounter in this Location will be with that.                                                                                                                                                    |
| 12           | Something’s empty home or office is found. Roll on the Treasure and Extraordinary Book Tables for what’s there, and on the Encounters Table to see what lives there. The thing’s not home currently. Next time you would roll an Encounter in this Location, the creature whose home you found comes back instead. |
| 13           | Hidden treasure is found under the floorboards! Roll on the Treasure Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 14           | A cache of treasure in a chest of drawers! Roll on the Treasure Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 15           | An extraordinary book on one of the shelves! Roll on the Extraordinary Books Table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 16           | A detailed set of notes left by prior researchers! Add `dice:1d4` to the party’s Progress.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 17           | A bookshelf swings out from the wall to reveal a secret passage, leading somewhere else. Draw a line on the map leading to a previously explored Location, ideally one less deep than the current Location.                                                                                                        |
| 18           | An ominous locked door! If it can be opened (with lockpicking, force, etc.) it leads to a Location `dice:1d6+1` Layers deeper.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 19           | A spiral staircase behind one of the shelves! It leads back to where the PCs first entered The Archive.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 20           | Behind the party, the bookshelves rearrange themselves, blocking their route back! Erase one of the exits at this Location.                                                                                                                                                                                        |

### References

- The Stygian Library
