 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Depths of Khyber are large and varied. This adventure is designed to outline the basic structure that will be used for all Khyber adventures, the specifics of which are covered in the next several adventures. Random tables below can be used to structure the adventures between the three different "levels" of Khyber - the Shadow Demiplanes, the Prison Demiplanes, and the Heart Demiplanes.
* The demiplanes of Khyber are somewhat like the layers of other planes. Each demiplane has limited space, though it could be as small as a house or as large as a nation. Its borders might be defined by impassable physical barriers or walls of force, or the pocket of space could wrap around — if you walk far enough in one direction, you’ll find you’ve looped back to where you began.

### Characters and Locations

* 

* **Heart Demiplanes**. 
* **Prison Demiplanes**. 
* **Shadow Demiplanes**. 

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ] -

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- For the previous The Archive adventure, the players likely start at Level 3 and advance to somewhere in the Tier 2 (Levels 5-10) range by the end, depending on how much they explore and how many encounters they have. For the Khyber adventures, it's probably best for them to be as close to Level 10 as possible to make for interesting challenges. This campaign is likely to end at/before Level 15.

### References

