 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The overlords — Rak Tulkhesh, Sul Khatesh, and others — are said to be Khyber’s first children. They were the first fiends to physically manifest, and each overlord brought forth a host of lesser fiends. When a fiend dies, its essence returns to Khyber. Each one is bound to and reincarnated in a particular demiplane within Khyber — the heart of an overlord. This is one reason the overlords can’t be permanently destroyed; each is part of the architecture of Khyber itself, and the overlord’s form that can be encountered in Eberron is simply a projection of its essence. To defeat the overlords, the champions of the Age of Demons used the Silver Flame to bind their immortal essence, preventing them from returning to their heart demiplane to reform. This essentially severed the brain from the heart — but the heart demiplanes still exist. The lesser servants of the overlord — its rakshasa and other fiend minions — return to the heart when they reform, and should an overlord’s bonds be broken, it will recover its full strength in its heart realm.
* Heart demiplanes are relatively small, around the size of a large city. Each reflects the overlord it’s tied to in appearance and properties. Just as the shard-prison of an overlord’s spirit can affect a region, portals to a heart realm often affect the surrounding area; what’s believed to be a manifest zone to Shavarath might instead be a portal to the Bitter Shield. While the overlords aren’t consciously present in their hearts, their essences still permeate them. Heart realms are typically inhabited by a host of lesser fiends bound to that overlord. Many have no desire to return to Eberron until their overlords are free, while others serve in the Lords of Dust, using the heart as a refuge. A few hearts are described below, but there are at least thirty — one for each overlord.

### Characters and Locations

* 

#### Aeon's Razor (Ran Iishiv, The Unmaker)


#### The Bitter Shield (Rak Tulkhesh)


#### The Final Throne (Tiamat, Daughter of Khyber)


#### The Freezing Firmament (Dral Khatuur, The Killing Cold)


#### The Godscar (Yad-Raghesh, Omen of Infection)


#### The Halls of the Hollow End (The Horned Prince)


#### The Heretic's Pyre (Bal Shalor, Shadow in the Flame)


#### The Iceblood Equinox (Masvirik, The Cold Sun)


#### The Ossuary of Splinters (Katashka, The Gatekeeper)


#### Ravener's Maw (The Wild Heart)


#### Requiem's Breach (The Lurker in Shadows)


#### The Tower of Shadows (Sul Khatesh, The Keeper of Secrets)


#### The Tempest of Ire (Sakinnirot, The Scar That Abides)


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables



### References

