 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* When something is described as being “trapped in Khyber,” it usually means it’s trapped in a demiplane somewhere in Khyber. The most infamous prisoners of Khyber are the daelkyr, but there may well be others — either immortal spirits or mortal creatures that were trapped in the demiplane by their enemies.
* When dealing with a prison demiplane, we have to decide the limitations of the portals. In the case of the daelkyr demiplanes, the daelkyr can’t leave them, but other creatures can freely enter or depart. So Dyrrn’s minions can swarm out of the Palace of Sinew, but as long as the Gatekeepers’ seals remain intact, Dyrrn itself cannot leave. The nature of the binding and the power of the daelkyr is such that they have shaped their demiplanes in their image, but lesser creatures could be trapped in more traditional prisons.

### Characters and Locations

* 

#### The Deepest Hive (Valaara, The Crawling Queen)


#### The Bastion of Dire Blooms (Avassh, The Twister of Roots)


#### The Titanoclast (Orlassk, The Lord of Stone)


#### The Evermire (Kyrzin, The Prince of Slime)


#### The Citadel of Lidless Eyes (Belashyrra, The All-Seer)


#### The Palace of Sinew (Dyrrn, The Corruptor)


#### The Umbral Sacrament (Shyntezca, The Liturgy of Dusk)


#### The Sunseal (Xeno'Tor, The Dawnchild)


#### Karda Ganti'Uul (Telvashti, The Screamweaver)


#### Titan's Drift (Sce'Gunavoi, Astral Oculus)


#### The Heart of Disgrace (Koscoralinax, Draconic Defiler)


#### The Realm of Certain Geoff (Geoff Smith)


#### Hope's Meridian (Veqtakatl, Prismatic Choir)


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- 

### References

- Hektula's Khyber Codex (http://wizzle.tplinkdns.com:38090/index.php/s/BCrLNNLidrK72S4)
