 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* Unlike heart and prison demiplanes, shadow demiplanes serve no clear purpose. They aren’t prisons or fortresses of evil, but rather, strange reflections of the world. Much like Xoriat, they often defy natural logic — and this often gives them great value. Beneath the Ironroot Mountains in the Realm Below, the dwarves found a realm where precious stones grow on trees. In the Vale of the Inner Sun, creatures don’t age.
* Many sages call these “shadow demiplanes” because many seem to be shadows of other planes; the Abyssal Forest of Khaar is a reflection of Lamannia, while the Ironlands bears some resemblance to Shavarath. But in fact, demiplanes of Khyber have no ties to the other planes, nor are they touched by the natural influence of Eberron or the celestial light of Siberys. Perhaps the concepts woven into these demiplanes are echoes of Khyber’s dreams or hints of what might have been… or perhaps their resemblance is inexplicable coincidence.
* Shadow realms may hold important resources that can be used or harvested — but these regions always have a malevolent aspect. Fiends are common, and even mortal creatures that dwell there are sinister. Remaining in a shadow realm for too long is usually an invitation to corruption. There are countless shadow demiplanes, some small and others vast; those mentioned here are just a few examples.

### Characters and Locations

* 

#### The Abyssal Forest of Khaar (Poison Jungle)


#### Arak Yor (Revelatory Ruins)


#### The Cinder Steppes (Burning Prairie)


#### The Fluxforge (Fractured Magic)


#### The Glitterdrift (Ultradark Caverns)


#### Il-Yannah’s Cry (Crystal Mindscape)


#### The Ironlands (Metallic Ecosystem)


#### Karda Ghaalrac (Mutant Heroes)


#### The Lagoons of Piety (Faithful Swamp)


#### New Noldrunthrone (Stone Ocean)


#### The Pinnacles Sublime (Extreme Mountains)


#### Saavra Kaluun (Morphic Cults)


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- 

### References

- Hektula's Khyber Codex (http://wizzle.tplinkdns.com:38090/index.php/s/BCrLNNLidrK72S4)
