 #campaign 

>"Chaos was the law of nature; Order was the dream of man" - Henry Adams

### Theme(s)

* Law/Order (Sphinxes) and Chaos (Dragons)

### Player Characters

* [[Aither Calobra Lightwood]] (Sara, from Adar)
* [[Shahiri]] (Claire, from Borunan)
* [[Staff]] (Jolene, from Ohr Kaluun)
* [[Thana Winslow]] (Alex, from Rhiavhaar)
* [[Verity]] (Kerrie, from Pyrine)

### Major NPCs

* [[Flamewind]] (Sharn)
* [[characters/Arstyvrax|Arstyvrax]] (BBEG, along with [[Aspect of Tiamat]])
* [[Valmoc]] (traveling)
* [[Onme Nanvia Donverou]] (Flamekeep)
* [[Gwendalyn]] (Eldeen Reaches)
* [[Gunnora]] (Valenar)
* [[Lukt]] (Karrnath)
* [[Tavick Thantorme]] (traveling)
* [[Belwyn]] (Sarlona somewhere? or traveling)

### Important Lore

* *Codex of All Mysteries*, Dorius Alyre ir'Korran
* *On the Mysteries of the Draconic Prophesy*, Prof. Windsor Stone
* [[Draconic Factions]]
* [[Sphinxes]]

### Background and DM-Facing Outline

After Mother Night's plans with Dream and his portal to the past were foiled by a party of adventuring heroes (see [[C01. What Dreams May Come]]), she was forced to make other arrangements to destroy Eberron. Her new plan involves convincing the Dragons, the most powerful race on Eberron (though reluctant to use their power), that releasing Tiamat (the daughter of Khyber herself) is actually a good thing that will lead to a new Eberron in which they will be the only ones in power. While this is technically true, and the Third Age of Eberron does belong to the Dragons, Mother Night only wants to advance the age in order to get closer to Eberron's complete destruction (foretold to happen at the end of the Third Age) and cares nothing for the dragons. Although it's possible that the dragons also believe that Eberron needs to be destroyed and combined with the other worlds of the material plane in order to bring back the First World.

Mother Night began communicating with a powerful dragon named Arstyvrax, who had an open heart to Mother Night's ideas due to his ties to necromancy. She stoked the flames of hate in his heart and convinced him to take his topaz dragons and attack Shae Mordai, the seat of the Undying Court in Aerenal. This attack, which occurred on 20 Barrakas 1001, was the first event in the Draconic Prophesy that is said to set in motion the eventual turning to the Third Age of Eberron.

Over the next half century across Eberron, all the clans of Dragons spread out, fueled by a new zeal from the topaz dragon attack. Strangely though, the topaz dragons themselves returned to Argonnessen and set up their base under The Vast, rarely to be seen again. Even more strangely, sightings of mysterious creatures known as sphinxes have been on the rise, especially on the newly liberated continent of Sarlona.

These events have garnered the attention of the formerly only known sphinx in Eberron, a gynosphinx called Flamewind who resides in the city of Sharn. She has been researching closely the events of the last fifty years, and is ready to put out the call for a group of adventurers to take on a dangerous mission...

This campaign will revolve around exploring underground temples, ruins, etc. and gathering information from sphinxes who hide behind riddles. Eventually, the party could learn enough to take on the dragons and/or stop their plan to free Tiamat. Since sphinxes have powerful magic, including time travel, they might be the only ones powerful enough to take on the dragons.
* Could also be fun to introduce a Steel Dragon as a ally later in the campaign (could've secretly been an NPC they've met along the way). https://www.reddit.com/r/DnDHomebrew/comments/ljo43s/steel_dragon_statistics_for_5e/
* Characters from the previous campaign can be used as the major NPCs in this campaign, stationed in broad areas of the world and moved as needed depending on where the players go.
* Campaign starts in Zarantyr 1051 YK.

#### Rough Outline

* Players travel to Sharn to meet Flamewind, who sends them on their mission to find and speak with all of the sphinxes. Afterward, they're followed by a silver dragonborn who comes to be their companion.
* They explore Khorvaire, after getting a map from the first sphinx that Flamewind sends them to, and build their power as they travel (including discovering interesting magical items).
* Eventually, they end up speaking with the king of the sphinxes who fills them in on any missing information about the topaz dragons and their plot to attempt to release Tiamat.
* When they return to Sharn, the city (specifically Morgrave University) is attacked by a white dragon. Flamewind is mortally wounded in the process, sending them off to her former lair in Xen'drik with her dying breath.
* In Xen'drik, the players meet a holographic version of Flamewind who is able to give the players any final direction needed to stop the dragon plot - although they'll need to become much more powerful from other tips they've been given from across Khorvaire.
* In the end, the players will travel to Argonnessen and try to stop the topaz dragons and their obsidian dragon leader. Their success will likely depend on allies they've gathered, or how they've handled the other dragon tribes and their goals.

### Player-Facing Outline

>The Dragons of Argonnessen have become a regular sight throughout Eberron, including Khorvaire, ever since the Elven city of Shae Mordai mysteriously fell almost fifty years ago. No one can explain their sudden increased presence, but with the knowledge and riches they bring, very few are complaining.

>Even stranger than the dragons is the recent surge in sightings of mysterious creatures known as sphinxes, especially on your home continent of Sarlona. These events have garnered the attention of the formerly only known sphinx in Eberron, a gynosphinx called Flamewind who resides in the city of Sharn. She has been researching closely the events of the last fifty years, and is ready to put out the call for a group of adventurers to take on a dangerous mission...

This is a true-to-form dungeons and dragons campaign that will revolve around exploring underground temples, ruins, etc. and gathering information from sphinxes who shroud themselves in riddles. Eventually, you may learn more about the events at Shae Mordai, what's been going on over the last fifty years (as this is set about fifty years after your last adventure), or even what the dragons may be up to.

We'll do character creation together during Session Zero - don't feel obligated to come with anything more than a basic concept. If you'd like to know more though, read on. Each of you will be from one of the Ten Kingdoms of the continent of Sarlona. I'll bring basic information about each to Session Zero, and you can each choose which one you want (no overlap). The first few sessions will be "vignettes" where we'll follow a day or two in the life of each of you in your home kingdom - this will essentially establish the "canon" for that area - much more to come on all that later!

### Introduction and Session Zero

Each player should create a character with a background tied to one of the Ten Kingdoms of Sarlona. Ideally they're still there and have to travel to Khorvaire to get to Sharn, but they could also have recently already arrived in Khorvaire (if it makes sense for their character to be exploring some aspect of the continent, such as an ancestral tie). That player will determine the details of that particular nation, so it should be one player per nation only (no overlap). Each PC needs to have at least a basic background (hometown, family, etc.) and at least two NPCs that are connected to them in some way.

The campaign will open with vignettes of each character (likely taking at least the entire first session, if not longer). Work with each player to flesh out their backstory if needed, and then roleplay at least one day in the life of that character in their home nation. Any details that come up during that vignette are canon for that nation, so work to establish cultural customs, locations, people, etc. By the end of each players' vignette, they should somehow receive the notification that someone in Sharn is looking for adventurers from Sarlona (and Sarlona only), and establish how they travel to Khorvaire (which will likely vary depending on their lifestyle - could catch a ride on a sailing ship, take an elemental airship, or something else entirely).

[[1-01. Ten Regions Vignettes]]

The players will then gather in Sharn and meet organically somewhere along the way (depending on how they arrive) or at Morgrave University near Flamewind's office. Flamewind will then fill them in on what's going on, and direct them toward her sphinx friend in Thrane.

[[1-02. Sharn and Flamewind]]

### Locations

#### [[locations/Sarlona|Sarlona]]

This is the primary starting location for the campaign, with many of the sphinxes residing here, and it quickly becoming the primary home for humans. After the Turning of the Age on Dal Quor in 1000 YK, the Unity of Reidra fell and the continent of Sarlona reverted back to something more akin to its former Twelve Kingdoms (now called the Ten Kingdoms).

#### [[Xen’drik]]

The former continent of the giants is still mostly abandoned. The Dragons generally avoid this continent due to their history with the Giants there. Flamewind is known to have originally come from Xen'drik and it's theorized that her lair still exists there somewhere.

#### [[Aerenal]]

The elves are still the primarily occupants of this continent, although in much lower numbers after the topaz dragon attack. The copper dragons, who already had a small outpost in the Madwood, have expanded out across much of Aerenal and even into Khorvaire and Sarlona via their commercial enterprise of the Copper Dragon Inns (many just being taken over Gold Dragon Inns).

#### [[Argonnessen]]

The gem dragons rule over all the other dragons from this island, but will occasionally (although rarely) interfere with the events of the other continents and races. The Amethyst Dragons head up the Scions of Sardior who control the continent, and have laid claim to the plains and other lands of the continent, while the Crystal Dragons have claimed the skies, and the Topaz dragons have sheltered themselves underground.

#### [[Khorvaire]]

The Chromatic and Metallic Dragons are exerting their influence over various regions of Khorvaire, and a number of different clans clash over areas of the continent.

##### Northwest (Everice)
The frigid islands off the coast of the main continent are ruled over by the White Dragons and primarily populated by Giants.

##### Northwest (Eldeen Reaches)
The area northwest of Lake Galifar (now Emerald Lake) is ruled over by the Green Dragons and primarily populated by Elves. The badlands in the northwest corner of the continent are mostly a no-man’s land between the Greens, Whites, and Blacks.

##### West (Shadow Marches, Droaam)
All areas between the Greywall Mountains / Silver Lake and the west coast of the continent are controlled by the Black Dragons and primarily populated by Orcs and Goblinoids.

##### Northeast (Lhazaar)
The chain of islands east of Hoarfrost Mountains are controlled by the Blue Dragons and primarily populated by Changelings.

##### East (Mror Holds)
The large mountain ranges, and the lake between them (now Ruby Lake), on the eastern area of the continent are controlled by the Red Dragons and primarily populated by Dwarves.

##### Southeast (Q’Barra, Talenta)
The deep jungles of this peninsula are the ancestral home of the Dragonborn and Lizardfolk races, but isn’t currently controlled by any single type of dragon. The plains to the west have become a no-man’s land between the Blue, Red, and Bronze Dragons, as well as the unaffiliated “Scales”.

##### South (Valenar)
The region south of Lake Cyre (now Bronze Lake) is controlled by the Bronze Dragons and primarily populated by Halflings.

##### South (Darguun, Zilargo)
The Brass Dragons control this southern expanse of the continent, and is primarily populated by Gnomes.

##### Southwest (Sharn, Breland)
The area up and down the Dagger River, between the Greywall Mountains and the Howling Peaks, up to Silver Lake, is controlled by the Silver Dragons and primarily populated by Dragonborn and other Lizardfolk.

##### Central (Thrane)
The island of Thronehold, and the surrounding areas, are controlled by the Gold Dragons and their mostly Human subjects. The Dragons are converting Galifar's old castle, which had been closed to the public for centuries, into a new golden wonder known as The Golden Palace. By opening it to the public, and allowing everyone to see the riches and power the Dragons possess, the Gold Dragons hope to be hoisted to the top of the societal hierarchy by the people of Khorvaire.

### References

* https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Sphinx
* https://keith-baker.com/dm-sphinxes/
