 #campaign 

>Our time here is magic! It's the only space you have to realize whatever it is that is beautiful, whatever is true, whatever is great, whatever is potential, whatever is rare, whatever is unique... - Ben Okri

### Theme(s)

* Magic, Power, and Life

### Player Characters

- 

### Major NPCs

- **Malakar Draksang** (male dragonborn blood mage). Malakar was a warlock who attended Strixhaven as part of Silverquill College many years ago, but he was passed over for the role of Oracle. He had a special hatred for the Dragonsguard, who had stood in his way, and all the rest of Strixhaven's elite with them. Malakar was all ego, for he believed he was the preeminent mage in the entirety of Eberron. His arrogance was spiked with fits of rage — he was furious that others did not appreciate and recognize his superiority, and he would take it out on anyone who did not show utter deference to him. Malakar practiced all forms of forbidden magic, but was especially drawn toward blood magic, as he strived to awaken the Blood Avatar to demolish Strixhaven University and claim its world-renowned library of spells for himself.

### Outline

#### Act 1

* **Introduction**: All of Strixhaven serves as the introduction of the campaign.
* **Inciting Incident**: BBEG's entry into the Biblioplex, and capturing of the Strixhaven Snarl.
* **First Plot Point**: Transportation of the PCs to Khorhaire.
* **Dramatic Question**: Will the players be able to build sufficient power to stop the BBEG?

#### Act 2

* Everything that happens after the PCs are transported to Khorvaire is the second act.
* **First Pinch Point**: Some evidence that magic is being drained from the world.
* **Second Plot Point (Midpoint)**: Clear and dramatic demonstration of there being less magic in the world.
* **Second Pinch Point**: Some consequence of there being less magic in the world (a setback).
* **Third Plot Point**: How will the PCs get back to Argonnessen? Possibly introduce an additional antagonist.

#### Act 3

* **Climax**: Battle with the BBEG.
* **Resolution**: Return to any professors and students that were important to the PCs during their time at Strixhaven.
* **Epilogue**

### Player-Facing Information



### Introduction and Session Zero

- Opening Quote, and Welcome.
- **Character Creation**. Each player should create a character that has a unique tie to magic. I encourage you to use concepts that you may not have had a chance to up to this point - like dragonmarks, or magic specific to Eberron. Please start thinking about character concepts as I cover the campaign information, and we'll loop back and flesh out each of your character ideas before leaving the session (I would like to have characters set up today).
- **General Campaign Information**.
	- The campaign's central theme is the nature of magic, and its relation to power and life. Please think about what you'd like your character to explore in relation to that theme, and let me know.
	- The campaign will take place in three acts. The first act will take place at Strixhaven University, the second act branches out from Strixhaven to other locations across Eberron, and the third act will be facing off against the BBEG. Most of what we talk about today will be discussing the Strixhaven opening.
- **Strixhaven Mechanics**.
	- **Strixhaven Is a University**. This book’s campaign assumes that the player characters are students at Strixhaven University. Even as they get caught up in the adventures, the characters have to continue going to class, doing homework, and studying for exams. The characters are also subject to the authority of the university’s faculty and staff members. Circumstances will at times cause player characters to defy faculty authority during their adventures, and the threat of detention or even expulsion might hang over their head. Finally, student characters are part of a school community. They live in university housing, eat in dining halls, and spend the majority of their time on campus. They eat, sleep, study, socialize, and adventure as part of a community of students, faculty, and staff. The school is like a town, where a relatively small cast of characters can play significant roles.
	- **It's An Academy of Mages**. Study at Strixhaven isn’t about learning to be a wizard but about learning to be a historian, an artist, an orator, a scientist, or some other profession — while using magic to enhance one’s studies. The university’s understanding of magic is expansive. Characters of any class can study at Strixhaven, whether they’re full-fledged spellcasters like wizards, clerics, and druids; they manage a spell or two thanks to a subclass or feat; or they manifest magical abilities that aren’t even spells. (For example, a barbarian who follows the Path of the Ancestral Guardian, described in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything, can excel in studying history at Lorehold College by virtue of their connection to an ancestral spirit.) Magic is everywhere on campus. The campus culture encourages finding magical solutions to the most mundane problems, and if characters need access to a spell they can’t cast, they have a strong chance of finding someone who can cast it.
	- **It's Cosmopolitan**. Strixhaven draws students and faculty from across the world and from other planes. The university’s students and faculty are united by a desire to learn and include humans, elves, dwarves, owlin, orcs, trolls, vampires, and studious folk of many other origins. In practical terms, for player characters, you can use the rules found in any D&D book to select a character’s race. For nonplayer characters, you’re as likely to meet a pixie, a dryad, a giant, a treant, or another fantastical creature on campus as you are to meet a Humanoid. To the faculty and students of Strixhaven, it is unremarkable to meet someone who hails from a far-off land, since almost everyone on campus is from somewhere else. Strixhaven has a place for anyone who is dedicated to magic-enhanced study.
	- **Students Life**. Students at Strixhaven spend their first year in a course of general studies, which lays the foundation for the more specialized work to follow. During this year, they wear a uniform of black, white, and gray. They’re encouraged to study broadly so that they be come acquainted with a wide range of disciplines. First-year students live in dormitories located on the central campus and often form close friendships there that last throughout their educational careers, even when members of tight-knit groups of friends join different colleges in their second year. A few students continue to live on central campus after choosing a college, particularly if they pursue extensive studies in multiple colleges or work as resident advisers to first-year students. But most students move to dormitories located on their chosen college’s campus in their second year.
	- **Relationships**. This campaign has mechanics for tracking relationship with other students and faculty across Strixhaven. These relationships may become Friends, Beloveds, or Rivals throughout the course of your time at the school, granting boons or banes depending on the individual and your relationship with them. During downtime, you can choose to spend time with people or perform other activities.
	- **Extracurriculars**. Extracurriculars — the campus clubs and societies students can join — are a key part of student life at Strixhaven. At any point during the book’s adventures, a character can gain the benefit of two of the Extracurriculars (or one Extracurricular and one Job). While a student participates in an Extracurricular, they gain a Student Die and a Relationship Point. A Job grants a Wage and a Relationship Point.
	- **Exams**. Through the course of your studies at Strixhaven, your skills will be tested in various classes. Each Exam encounter has a Studying phase followed by a Testing phase. In general, a character can approach Studying in any way they desire, with that phase then culminating in a single ability check of their choice. In contrast, Testing requires ability checks using specific skills. Also you can cheat, or use Student Dice to help your rolls.
- **Getting Started**. The players were all drawn together via an arcane summons from a magical letter, which instructed them to board a ship that came for them a day later. They were brought to the northern coast of Argonnessen, where they were escorted across a beach adorned with enormous monuments of carved stone in the shape of dragons' heads, to the center of the school of Strixhaven.

### DM Notes

* Main concept is the nature of [[Magic]], and its power in the world, using Buddhist/Jainist ideals.
* Use the [[Path of Light]] as the primary organization to drive the story. Turns out their views of magic have been right all along!
* Malakar has the goal to essentially collect all the Mana for himself, turning himself into a god (the first true god of Eberron, higher than the Sovereigns). He's using forbidden blood magic to further his goal, and the Strixhaven Snarl as a conduit to channel the mana. The dragons despise blood magic (especially since it uses dragon blood), and its use was the reason why they destroyed the giants of Xen'drik (who were beginning to practice blood magic).
* Important point: Strixhaven is NOT a school of magic, it's a school where you learn other things WHILE USING magic.

#### Act One

* Start out in Strixhaven, which is located in The Vast in Argonnessen, and has been teaching dragons and exceptional non-dragons in secrets for a long time. Each player should have some significant tie to magic - so discourage full martial classes like fighters and barbarians, but if used then the PC should think about where their power comes from, and how they want to grow their power as part of their character arc.
	* Could be fun to have different lectures that outline how each of the classes manipulate Mana to create magical effects.
* At Strixhaven, give each PC/Student a real planner/calendar, with all of the major school events, weekly class schedules, Eberron holidays, interesting facts, etc.

- Downtime should be about 30% of the adventure - so every other session or so, ask what players are doing.
- Come up with a table, or several tables, for random activities that can be done. Especially for downtime.
- Tables of random students, random professors, and random magical happenings (that can be whole adventures on their own). Use printed cards for the NPCs, and possibly professors too.
- Add more exams that follow the format in the book, then make the final exam more of a practical exam that is a small adventure of its own.
- Additional NPC Ideas:
	- Rob Guthrie - Lorehold grad student (chaos), who's depressed, and hangs out at the tavern all the time.
	- Matt Drwenski - Lorehold grad student (order), who's depressed, and hangs out at the tavern all the time.
	- Crazy Street Preacher - just anti-magic generally, yelling at the students
	- Professor who likes to go to student parties
	- The cool guy who doesn't even go to school here, but is dating someone there and just hangs around (a dragonborn in a leather jacket ala Johnny Spells).
	- NPCs based on the characters of Community (from the introduction) - remedial teens (Troy), twenty-something drop outs (Britta), middle age divorcees (Shirley), and old people keeping their minds active as they circle the drain of eternity (Pierce), Abed, Jeff, Annie.

##### Chapter 1
- Defeat Mergaxor at the end of chapter 1 (likely at the swamp, give him a lair) - he's the villain for only this chapter now. Leave clues throughout the chapter.

##### Chapter 2
- Actually play Mage Tower!
- See if it's possible to include other schools, rather than visiting Witherbloom multiple times. In this chapter, for example, replace the mascots with something else (like cute animals) in another location.
- Find more clues about the Oriq, and the demon that gives them their power. Use the mage hunters as the final encounter (who they can't damage as easily with spells, so they need to think outside the box and use spells more for things like control).

##### Chapter 3
- Introduce a really shitty Animal House style fraternity, and let the players join? Could be fun to have them on the bad side of administration.
- "Scroll and Bones" society as the more buttoned up (and possibly evil) secret society.
- The orb in this chapter is the orb of the BBEG, and it's controlling the Dean (who may or may not be a member of the Oriq). Plays well into the masquerade since the Oriq rely on masks.

##### Chapter 4
- Skip the Detention Bog in this chapter? Or use it elsewhere - but Mergaxor will no longer be a threat at this point.
- Caerdunn Castle should be replaced by just the demon or an encounter with the BBEG.

* The assault on Strixhaven became the perfect misdirection for Malakar's true goals. During the ensuing chaos, he entered the Biblioplex and descended into the Hall of Oracles to harness the power of the Strixhaven Snarl, a maelstrom of power left behind from the creation of the world. The party likely tries to intervene (or if not then one of the professors can), but are transported away the instant they get close to the Snarl. They land somewhere in Khorvaire, accompanied by a professor (and/or other NPCs) who was trying to help, and who can direct them to the other magical schools of Eberron so they can learn more about the nature of magic and how to take on the BBEG.

#### Act Two

* This act is marked by the players being teleported to Khorvaire. None of the PCs can use any magical spells, until they investigate and address that school of magic (in the appropriate adventure, as outlined below).
* As the story progresses, evidence of magic drain across Eberron should become apparent. As a wide magic world, this may be subtle at first, but maybe basic spells like *[[prestidigitation]]*, that's used everywhere for lots of things, stop working.
* Should try to do some sort of progression based on the different schools of magic (sort of like previously done with the skills), probably in Act 2. This should tie in various magical masters and schools across Eberron. Basically the BBEG has been trying to wipe out the different schools of magic by eliminating any master of that school (usually by going back in time and eliminating them from the timeline), or disrupting the education of it through the major academic organization. But expand this a bit to include additional magic to get to a "Baker's Dozen" - the eight standard 5e schools, plus psionics and artifice for Eberron, and the three for the BBEG and his lieutenants (chronomancy, dunamancy, and blood magic - which is the "minus one" in the Baker's Dozen).
	* Heavy use of Living Spells as monsters in each of the "magic type" inspired areas.
	* Possibly have the hooks related to tracking down other NPCs (preferably friends, related to each school) from Strixhaven who have also gone missing?
* [[2-02. Transmutation]]: Mordain the Fleshweaver (Mordain's Hall in Droaam), and a time travel adventure
* [[2-03. Illusion]]: Korranberg and Pylas Pyrial in Zilargo, and The Prince of Frost
* [[2-04. Abjuration]]: Morgrave University in Sharn, and ???
* [[2-05. Evocation]]: Rekkenmark Academy in Karrnath, and ???
* [[2-06. Necromancy]]: Atur in Karrnath, and ???
* [[2-07. Enchantment]]: University of Wynarn in Aundair, and ???
* [[2-08. Divination]]: The Floating Towers of Arcanix in Aundair, and a time travel adventure
* [[2-09. Conjuration]]: Oalian, Greenheart in the Eldeen Reaches, and ???
* [[2-10. Artifice]]: Lord of Blades, The Mournland, and ???
* [[2-11. Psionics]]: Adar in Sarlona, and ???

#### Act Three

- This act is marked by the players' return to Argonnessen. Two additional adventures will be tackled, based on the school practiced by Malakar's lieutenants, before returning to Strixhaven proper to take on the big bad himself.
- [[2-12. Entropomancy]]: Argonnessen, Oriq Second Lieutenant, and a planar jaunt?
- [[2-13. Dunamancy]]: Argonnessen, Extus Narr (Oriq First Lieutenant), and a time hopping jaunt?
- [[2-14. Hemomancy (Finale)]]: Strixhaven, Final confrontation with Malakar

### References

* https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-wizard-circles/
* https://olddungeonmaster.com/2017/05/02/dd-5e-the-nature-of-magic/
* https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-strixhaven/
* https://mtg.fandom.com/wiki/Extus_Narr (inspiration for Malakar Draksang, and name for his first lieutenant)
