 #campaign 

>Our time here is magic! It's the only space you have to realize whatever it is that is beautiful, whatever is true, whatever is great, whatever is potential, whatever is rare, whatever is unique... - Ben Okri

### Theme(s)

* Magic, Power, and Life

### Player Characters



### Major NPCs



### Outline

#### Act 1

* **Introduction**: All of Strixhaven serves as the introduction of the campaign.
* **Inciting Incident**: BBEG's entry into the Biblioplex, and capturing of the Strixhaven Snarl.
* **First Plot Point**: Transportation of the PCs to Khorhaire.
* **Dramatic Question**: Will the players be able to build sufficient power to stop the BBEG?

#### Act 2

* Everything that happens after the PCs are transported to Khorvaire is the second act.
* **First Pinch Point**: Some evidence that magic is being drained from the world.
* **Second Plot Point (Midpoint)**: Clear and dramatic demonstration of there being less magic in the world.
* **Second Pinch Point**: Some consequence of there being less magic in the world (a setback).
* **Third Plot Point**: How will the PCs get back to Argonnessen? Possibly introduce an additional antagonist.

#### Act 3

* **Climax**: Battle with the BBEG.
* **Resolution**: Return to any professors and students that were important to the PCs during their time at Strixhaven.
* **Epilogue**

### Player-Facing Information



### Introduction and Session Zero

Each player should create a character that has a unique tie to magic. Encourage players to use concepts they may not have had a chance to up to this point - like dragonmarks, or magic specific to Eberron.

Go over the Strixhaven-specific mechanics, including relationships and exams.

### DM Notes

* Main concept is the nature of [[Magic]], and its power in the world, using Buddhist/Jainist ideals.
* Use the [[Path of Light]] as the primary organization to drive the story. Turns out their views of magic have been right all along. Maybe a member of their order is the BBEG?
* Whoever the BBEG is, his goal is to essentially collect all the Mana for himself, turning himself into a god (the first true god of Eberron, higher than the Sovereigns).
* Should start the players out in Arcanix (or another University, or even a newly established school in Argonnessen, actually founded by Chamber dragons), and maybe even run a Strixhaven-like chapter to start the story (beginning with meeting on the first day of classes in their first year). Each player should have some significant tie to magic - so discourage full martial classes like fighters and barbarians, but if used then the PC should think about where their power comes from, and how they want to grow their power as part of their character arc.
	* Could be fun to have different lectures that outline how each of the classes manipulate Mana to create magical effects.
	* https://olddungeonmaster.com/2017/05/02/dd-5e-the-nature-of-magic/
	* https://keith-baker.com/ifaq-strixhaven/
* The assault on Strixhaven became the perfect misdirection for the BBEG's true goals. During the ensuing chaos, he entered the Biblioplex and descended into the Hall of Oracles to harness the power of the Strixhaven Snarl, a maelstrom of power left behind from the creation of the world. The party likely tries to intervene (or if not then one of the professors can), but are transported away the instant they get close to the Snarl. They land somewhere in Khorvaire, accompanied by a professor who was trying to help, and who can direct them to the other magical schools of Eberron so they can learn more about the nature of magic and how to take on the BBEG.
	* https://mtg.fandom.com/wiki/Extus_Narr
* As the story progresses, evidence of magic drain across Eberron should become apparent. As a wide magic world, this may be subtle at first, but maybe basic spells like *[[prestidigitation]]*, that's used everywhere for lots of things, stop working.
* Should try to do some sort of progression based on the different schools of magic (sort of like previously done with the skills), probably in Act 2. This should tie in various magical masters and schools across Eberron. Basically the BBEG has been trying to wipe out the different schools of magic by eliminating any master of that school (usually by going back in time and eliminating them from the timeline), or disrupting the education of it through the major academic organization.
	* Blackroot (Droaam) - Transmutation
		* Mordain the Fleshweaver
		* Still navigate the Forest of Flesh, but they get to where the Tower is supposed to be, it's not there and is instead replaced by a menhir with a spell carved on it. If read aloud, it teleports the PCs back in time to 797 YK, when Mordain was excoriated from House Phiarlan. The adventure is to play out the events that took place, while stopping the BBEG from interfering (but need to figure out how to make it interesting, and still have player agency).
	* Korranberg (Zilargo) - Illusion
		* Adapt Candlekeep, as needed, for Korranberg itself.
		* Pylas Pyrial should be the location they need to find, and the "dungeon" for this magic school. Possibly something to do with the Prince of Frost? Incorporate Ihan de Rhaan from C01.
		* https://www.worldanvil.com/w/eberjon-clarkjo03/a/pylas-pyrial-settlement
	* Adar (Sarlona) - Enchantment
	* Morgrave (Breland) - Evocation
	* Rekkenmark (Karrnath) - Abjuration
	* Atur (Karrnath) - Necromancy
	* University of Wynarn? / Arcanix? (Aundair) - Divination
	* Strixhaven - Conjuration
* At Strixhaven, give each PC/Student a real planner/calendar, with all of the major school events, weekly class schedules, Eberron holidays, interesting facts, etc.

### References
