 #campaign 

### Theme(s)
- Civilization (versus perceived as uncivilized) and Consciousness (dreams and surrealism)

#### Inspirations
- Atlantis (Greek myth)
- John C. Lilly (LSD and dolphins) 
- Avatar (James Cameron movie series)
- Princess Mononoke (movie)
- Adventure Zone: Ethersea
- Deep Ones of H.P. Lovecraft

### Brainstorm

- PCs live in an above water city (like Atlantis or Ethersea, but on the surface), occupied by various humanoid and aquatic races, but mostly merfolk (probably Tritons, mechnically). This city serves as a sort of waypoint and potential diplomatic base in which aquatic and non-aquatic races can co-exist, which doesn't happen anywhere else on Eberron.
- Their city uses an aquatic race (likely kuo-toa) as "service animals", for gathering food, transportation, and other things. They seem to the players to be treated well, but may not actually be. 
- Eventually the players learn these animals aren't treated well, and start to get dream visions of another world and race of people under the water (likely the sahuagin).
- Idea is to set up a moral dilemma where the players have to decide if their culture is truly the civilized one, when they treat the underwater people so badly, or if the other culture is in the right and they defect to fight on their side. Will need to set up a larger secret conflict between the two - like maybe the players' city is exploiting the underwater city in some way that the players won't abide?
- The merfolk city is likely in the Sea of Rage, equidistant between Sarlona, Argonnesson, and Khorvaire. The sea elves occupy the waters south of Aerenal between there and Argonnesson. The kuo-toa occupy the Dark Sea (between Argonnesson and Xen'drik), while the sahaugin are the main race in the Thunder Sea (concentrated in the region between Xen'drik and Khorvaire). The region between Khorvaire and Aerenal is generally dangerous to all species, due to the presence of Kraken Bay and the prevalence of undersea monsters.
- Adventures ideas:
	- Ancient aboleth ruins holding remnants of powerful magic… essentially, the undersea equivalent of Ashtakala and the Demon Wastes.
	- Kuo-toa ancient cities and haunted ruins, hinting at a previous civilization that fell and led to them becoming savages and servants.
	- Kraken Bay and a range of aquatic monsters.
	- An underwater Mournland-like region.
	- Thelanis manifest zone full of bioluminescent seaweed and aquatic fey.
	- Underwater Aereni sea elf city, ruled by aquatic Dealthless, and possibly tied to a manifest zone to Irian.
	- Kar'lassa and their planes.

### Outline

#### Act 1

- 

#### Act 2

- 

#### Act 3

- 

### Major NPCs

- Animal handler NPC based on John Lilly who reveals with issues with the kuo-toa to the players.
- Leader of the sahuagin people.

### Player Characters

- 

### References

- https://keith-baker.com/underwater-eberron/
