 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The strange happenings on campus in this adventure are caused by a corrupted substance known as eldritch balm. Used at Strixhaven for decades, eldritch balm is an alchemical salve made from the sludgy, acidic waters of Sedgemoor, the bayou that encompasses the Witherbloom College campus. Once these waters undergo an alchemical process in Witherbloom’s faculty laboratories, the resulting eldritch balm is used to magically treat and strengthen objects, from storage trunks to cooking vats to stage props and more. The balm’s effects differ depending on the objects treated, but it typically provides resistance to certain types of damage or other protections useful on a campus where magic often goes awry.
* Unknown to anyone on campus, Sedgemoor’s waters were recently corrupted by the foul magic practiced by Murgaxor Grenshel, the villain the characters will likely face at the end of this year. Murgaxor intended the eldritch balm to be affected by his sinister experiments and hoped the resulting chaos would disrupt life at Strixhaven.

### Characters and Locations

* **Groff Lundquist** (NG male human commoner). A friendly Strixhaven staff member who runs the Biblioplex Student Store and is known for his ability to fashionably mix and match items of university apparel.
* **Aisla Fitzbottom** (CG female gnome commoner). Aisla runs the Biblioplex Café. She is charmingly perky and has a mind like a steel trap when it comes to recognizing students.
* **Professor Mavinda Sharpbeak** (NG female owlin Silverquill professor of radiance). 
* **Ellina Tanglewood** (CG female elf mage). The Strixhaven employee who manages the café and serves as its chief barista.
* **Verelda Lang** (CN female dryad professor from Witherbloom College). A respected arcano-biologist who teaches Quandrix College courses in addition to her Witherbloom College and general education offerings.
* **Javenesh Stoutclaw** (NG female owlin Lorehold apprentice). Student employee at Bow's End Tavern.
* **Tulk “The Bulk” Tusktooth** (LG male orc gladiator). A Strixhaven employee, and the Bow's End Tavern manager, with a kind demeanor but no tolerance for misbehavior.
* **Curtie Axechucker** (CN female dwarf commoner). A Strixhaven employee and beloved personality on campus. Chef Curtie views cooking as an art, and she teaches the four students who work for her to cook using hunches and passion instead of precision or science.

* **The Bibioplex**
* **Dormitory Tower**
* **Firejolt Café**
* **Bow's End Tavern**

### Scenes and Situations

The scenes below are broken out into the adventures from the Strixhaven book (Chapter 3, first half), organized into weeks appropriate to fill an entire academic semester. On the "off weeks" from what's presented here, downtime activities are happening for each of the players, so ask what they're doing between these scenes. Classes are presumed to be happening during the entire course of the semester, and exams are only called out for the sake of mechanics.

#### Week 1: Orientation Week

##### Day 1: Moving In

 - [ ]  **Introduction**

- This adventure begins when students have arrived on Strixhaven’s campus and the term’s classes are about to start. For the characters, the first order of business is to complete the week of orientation events required of first-year students.
- Players are welcome to explore campus, but are encouraged to find their dorm rooms since it's already late evening.

 - [ ]  **Dormitory Tower**

- The characters' welcome letters included the details of their dormitory assignments, and how to access their rooms. The transport circles described in the Biblioplex can be used to get the players to their individual dorm rooms by simply standing on one and thinking of their room. This method cannot be used to access any other dorm floors unless given permission to do so.
- They arrive in a curved hallway, within a small alcove which contains a transport circle that can move the players back to the Biblioplex. The first door is closed and leads to the resident advisor's room. Three doors lead to shared (between two people) 15x15 rooms, one of which magically opens for each appropriate player. Flanking these rooms are two shared bathrooms (gender-neutral) which include showers. At the end of the hallway is a common room which can be seen clearly through a bank of floor-to-ceiling windows. All floors of the dorm tower have an identical layout.
- Each shared dorm room houses two wooden beds, each bunked over a wooden desk, and a small gelatinous cube refrigerator. On each desk is a sheet of paper, which outlines all of the events for Orientation Week, presented as a checklist. It states that each student must turn in their completed checklist to the RA at the end of the week, and this is required before starting classes.
- Roll to determine which PCs are rooming with each other. Also choose a random NPC to be their RA.
- Players have the evening to do whatever they'd like, describe how they're settling in, and chat with their roommate and possibly others in the hallway. In the morning, their Orientation Week begins!

##### Day 2: Biblioplex Scavenger Hunt

 - [ ]  **Introducing the Biblioplex**

- Day 2 of Orientation, consisting of a scavenger hunt, begins in the Biblioplex, the university’s grand library.
>Majestic marble archways, tomes seemingly stacked for miles, and the infectious energy of hundreds of young adults fill the Biblioplex, the grand library at the heart of Strixhaven University. The sights, sounds, and sparks of magic in the air are wondrous.
>Your acceptance letter stated that you must report to the Biblioplex’s Hall of Oracles to receive instructions on new-student orientation. The hall sits at the center of the Biblioplex’s first floor, and you can already see students gathering there.

- The characters know the basics about the Strixhaven campus, as well as the following information:
	- **Central Campus**. The Biblioplex isn’t the only building on the central campus, where students spend a lot of time. Two other popular locations are Firejolt Cafe and Bow’s End Tavern.
	- **Colleges**. Characters know the overall details about the five colleges that make up Strixhaven. They also know that each Strixhaven student chooses membership in a specific college at the start of their second year.
- **Biblioplex Features**. The Biblioplex has the following features:
	- **Ceilings**. The ceilings throughout the first floor of the Biblioplex are 50 feet high. The second- and third-floor ceilings are 30 feet high.
	- **Magic Stairs**. As in all Strixhaven buildings, the stairs and steps leading into and within the Biblioplex are enchanted to move and reshape for full accessibility.
	- **Transport Circles**. A runic circle is painted on the floor near each staircase in the Biblioplex, as well as at the top and bottom of the steps leading to the main entrance in area B1. These circles are permanent, customized teleportation circles. When a user moves onto a circle and mentally focuses on the floor to which they wish to travel, they are transported to the destination floor, arriving at that floor’s runic circle for that staircase. (Students are all aware that entering the second floor is forbidden without permission from a faculty member). The circle at the bottom of the front steps teleports users to the circle at the top of the stairs and vice versa.
	- **Students and Professors**. Students of all years and colleges can be found in the Biblioplex. as can professors from all the colleges.

 - [ ]  **B1. Main Entrance**

- Enchanted marble steps lead up 5 feet to a small plaza at the Biblioplex's entrance. The double door’s vertical handles are each carved in the likeness of a robed scholar. During the day. the doors stand open. At night, the doors are closed, locked, and sealed with an arcane lock spell. A successful DC 25 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools opens the lock (DC 35 while the arcane lock is in effect). Only the Biblioplex’s reference librarians and certain faculty members know the arcane lock's password.

 - [ ]  **B2. Biblioplex Lounge**

- Luxurious couches and sturdy tables furnish this spacious area. Students, employees, and staff members often use this lounge to relax between shifts in the student store (area B5), the Biblioplex cafe (area B6), or elsewhere in the library. Each table holds piles of magazines, newsletters, flyers, and nonmagical scrolls from around campus. A character who examines these materials finds recruitment flyers from `dice:1d3` Extracurriculars. They also find “Help Wanted’’ ads for the Jobs at the Biblioplex.

 - [ ]  **B3. Student Café Seating**

- This area typically holds `dice:6d6` students, all of them studying, eating, chatting, or even sleeping. Many enjoy food and drinks from the café (area B6).

 - [ ]  **B4. Information Desk**

- Three faculty-appointed reference librarians work at each of these circular desks (use any of the professor stat blocks if needed). All are expert scholars and powerful mages. They can provide helpful instructions for where to find any public location or collection in the Biblioplex.

 - [ ]  **B5. Student Store**

- This small shop is stocked with books, equipment, and gear useful as academic supplies. The store’s manager is Groff Lundquist, a friendly Strixhaven staff member known for his ability to fashionably mix and match items of university apparel. Students can buy hats, scarves, tunics, robes, gloves, and other apparel embroidered with the Strixhaven star or with the sigil of any of Strixhaven’s colleges. Costs range from 5 cp to 5 gp or more, at your discretion.
- Once a character chooses a college at the start of second year, they receive a set of college robes, a knit hat, a scarf, a tunic, and gloves free of charge. (This set normally costs 5 gp.)
- In addition to nonmagical gear and clothing, the store also contains the magic items from the “Magic Items’’ section of chapter 2.

 - [ ]  **B6. Biblioplex Café**

- One wall of this area is covered with a mural made from a living tree’s roots, which move occasionally and make the entire place feel alive. The ceiling is covered in painted leaves, which change colors depending on the season thanks to a permanent illusion effect. The magic also prompts painted squirrels to run up and down the mural’s roots, and painted birds to chirp among the leaves.
- Up to ten students are typically present here during the day. Ordinarily, three more students work here, but during orientation, the cafe's manager, Aisla Fitzbottom (chaotic good gnome commoner), is working alone. She is charmingly perky and has a mind like a steel trap when it comes to recognizing students. However, her organizational skills are somewhat lackadaisical.
- The cafe always serves coffee and tea, which costs 1 cp per cup. The sandwich of the day varies. Roll below to determine which sandwich is available on any given day in the café.

| d6  | Sandwhich                                            |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Grilled halloumi with morels on wheat                |
| 2   | Toasted cockatrice gizzards on rye                   |
| 3   | Open-faced radish chips, deep-fried with dijon       |
| 4   | Crunchy frog legs on toast                           |
| 5   | Rainbow carrots and watercress chestnuts on<br>white |
| 6   | Dragonbreath peppers and salami on a bagel           |

 - [ ]  **B7. Lecture Hall**

- Each of these halls hosts interdisciplinary lectures for Strixhaven students. The seats magically grow or shrink to comfortably accommodate students of any size or body type. The halls’ acoustics are magically enhanced to amplify the professor's lecture and minimize the disruption of side conversations.
- While a class is in session, each hall holds a professor and up to thirty students.

 - [ ]  **B8. Study Area**

- These open study areas feature simple wooden tables and chairs. During the day, up to thirty students can typically be found here.
- If the characters pass by the western study area before orientation, members of the Live-Action Roleplaying Guild are pulling costumes and props from a half dozen old trunks. The guild is preparing for an event later on the Biblioplex’s lawn: a game they call Beholders versus Behirs. Rosie Wuzfeddlims (CG female gnome first-year student) is directing students as they cobble together beholder and behir costumes, as well as visual effects made from sheets, blankets, wooden frames, tin plates, and illusion magic.

 - [ ]  **B9. Book Garden**

- In these quiet areas, students sit on the grass and study among lush foliage. Sometime last year, three awakened shrubs wandered in here and settled in each garden, and the university has welcomed them to stay. Members of Witherbloom College typically tend this space, and three Witherbloom pledge mages can be found here most days.
- Members of the Fantastical Horticulture Club often relax in this area and hold meetings here from time to time. If the characters explore this area before or after orientation, Urzmaktok Grojsh (N male orc Witherbloom apprentice) is here, recruiting first-year students to the club.

 - [ ]  **B10. Main Stacks**

- Floor-to-ceiling bookshelves fill the center and the east end of the library’s first floor, with the denser east stacks under a magic effect that shifts them when students approach, creating space to stand single-file between them. These books are mostly introductory texts, and first-year students are often directed here by their instructors. In each of these areas, two cogwork archivists busily shelve returned or misfiled books.
- Characters who browse these shelves unaided stumble on what they need with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. However, it’s always easier to ask a reference librarian (area B4).

 - [ ]  **B11. Hall of Oracles**

* This hallowed hall is filled with statues of the university’s past Oracles. At the center of the hall, a pulsing ball of magical energy — the Strixhaven Snarl — fills the area with bright light.

 - [ ]  **B12. Student and Alumni Art Gallery**

- This crisp-looking room features white walls and columns that stretch from floor to ceiling. Displayed on or within these are art pieces representative of various media. Students from Prismari College typically tend this space, and three Prismari pledge mages can be found here most days, either cleaning the gallery or studying the techniques used in the displayed pieces. A storage area at the back holds supplies and artwork waiting to go on display.
- The Distinguished Society of Fine Artists often meets and holds discussions here. If the characters explore this area before or after orientation, Cadoras Damellawar (CG elf first-year student) is here recruiting first-year students to the society.

 - [ ]  **B13. Amphitheater**

- This impressive stage is used for lectures, for assemblies, and as a gathering place in case of emergencies. Magic steps lead up to the stage from the floor of the library. Members of the Play actors Drama Guild often use this stage to meet and rehearse when the Rose Stage on Silverquill’s campus is unavailable.
- If the characters pass by this area before or after orientation, Quentillius Antiphiun Melentor III (N human first-year student) is here recruiting new students to the Playactors Drama Guild.

 - [ ]  **B14. Student Activities Center**

- This room is filled with tables and chairs and is available to any student organization registered with Strixhaven for use as a meeting place, rehearsal facility, or crafting site, or for other approved purposes.
- If the characters explore this area before or after orientation, it is set up to promote Extracurriculars. The tables are covered with flyers from the Dead Languages Society, the Dragonchess Club, the Dragonsguard Historical Society, Future Entrepreneurs of Strixhaven, the Intramural Gymnastics Club, the Intramural Silkball Club, the Intramural Water-Dancing Club, the Mage Tower Cheer Squad, the Strixhaven Iron-Lifters Society, the Strixhaven Show Band Association, the Strixhaven Star, and Student-Mages of Faith, and are staffed by the students listed in “Extracurriculars" as being associated with them.
- Extracurricular groups not here can be found elsewhere in the Biblioplex, along with their student NPCs — the Live-Action Roleplaying Guild (area B8), the Fantastical Horticulture Club (area B9), the Distinguished Society of Fine Artists (area B12), and the Playactors Drama Guild (area B13).

 - [ ]  **B15. Student Council Hall**

- Filled with wooden tables and benches, this room has a flag displaying the Strixhaven star symbol hanging on its back wall. Here, a student council publicly debates Strixhaven policies that most affect the student body. The leaders of the school’s Extracurriculars come to the council to conduct matters of business, and the council usually meets on the first day of every month. Outside those meeting days, the room is used for other official university business or stands empty.

 - [ ]  **B16. Advanced Student Stacks**

- Rooms on the Biblioplex’s second floor can be accessed only with keys held by faculty members, or that the reference librarians in area B4 grant students on a case-by-case basis. Typically, students don’t receive keys to these stacks until they’re studying for their final thesis during their fourth year at Strixhaven. The arcane knowledge in the books here is not public — and is sometimes dangerous.
- To prevent overly ambitious mages and Strixhaven’s enemies from teleporting into and accessing this area, two **shield guardians** patrol at all times. Both the guardians have sleep as their stored spell, and their control amulets are in the possession of two of the librarians on duty in the Biblioplex.
- Students with permission to work here are given passwords by which the Constructs recognize them as friends.

 - [ ]  **B17. Advanced Student Office**

- These private offices are for students working on their theses, accessed using the same keys that allow access to area B16.

 - [ ]  **B18. Advanced Student Lounge**

- This rest area is designed to help stressed-out senior students unwind. Large tables are set up for gaming and shelves are filled with recreational reading material. The area can be accessed only through the advanced student stacks (area B17).

 - [ ]  **B19. The Compendium**

- This area on the library’s third floor holds copies of most of the mundane, widely available written works in the multiverse. The books are inscrutably cataloged, so it’s almost impossible to find anything without requesting information from a reference librarian (area B4). Characters who look for information without obtaining help discover what they're looking for only with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check.
- At the center of this area stands a statue depicting a mighty, benevolent dragon. The magical statue reads aloud the contents of most books placed in front of it if a character makes that request verbally or mentally. (The magic of the statue can assess text such as verbal curses that present a danger if read aloud, and the statue ignores requests to read such text.)

 - [ ]  **Orientation Challenge**

- When the characters enter the Hall of Oracles to begin orientation, read or paraphrase the following:
>An almost sacrosanct sense of calm descends as you step into the Hall of Oracles. "Brilliant scholars," says a rich, soothing voice radiating from the hall’s central snarl of glowing energy. "Your attention, please.
“As you are now Strixhaven University students, this storied Biblioplex will be your second home for research, studies, and even leisure. And to introduce you to it, we will embark on Orientation Week's first event — a scavenger hunt!"

- A small parchment materializes in front of the characters. It presents a list of clues.
>“The rules are simple," the voice says. “Each clue on this list will lead you to a different location in the Biblioplex. Simply travel to the area each clue references and perform the action the clue suggests. Time is of the essence. You have only until the end of the day to finish your hunt.
“Solve as many clues as you can, because at each location, you may win a prize! Now then, off you go!”

- A character can win a prize for each clue they solve but can receive only one item in each place. If a character tries to redo a clue to receive a second item, the magic that reveals the item doesn’t work again. Here are the clues:
	- Clue 1. You’ll forget all about any trouble or plight when you step forward and are ensnarled in light.
	- Clue 2. Alumni commission works when they retire, seeking promising mages to inspire.
	- Clue 3. Each group deserves a free treat for their investment. Serve up this list and enjoy your refreshment.
	- Clue 4. These leafy beds aren't always what they seem. Give them a pat and see what you glean.
	- Clue 5. Some stars are ancient, enduring, and bright. But others — maybe you! — are born on opening night.
- Each clue can be unraveled either by deduction, or with a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check. A decoded clue points the characters toward one of the areas of the Bibliopiex as well as the action they must take to receive a prize in that area.
- Explain the Biblioplex’s areas in detail before the characters begin this scavenger hunt, so they have an idea of which areas the clues point to. Have the characters begin the scavenger hunt with the first clue, since it points to the room they’re already standing in. The players can then complete the other clues in any order they wish.

 - [ ]  **Clue 1: Hall of Oracles**

- This clue refers the characters to the room they start the orientation in (area B11).
- If a character touches the pooled energy below the snarl, they momentarily lose track of their body, overwhelmed by the snarl’s magical power. The character automatically disengages from the snarl and discovers that they are holding a [[potion of healing]].

 - [ ]  **Clue 2: Student Art Gallery**

- This clue refers to the Student and Alumni Art Gallery in area B12.
- When the characters wander through the gallery, they see a portrait of several older alumni wearing Prismari College robes. If a character examines the portrait, they find a plaque that reads: “At Strixhaven we were all inspired.” Below the plaque is a small lever. If a character uses an action to pull the lever, a box pops out of the wall containing a Strixhaven pennant for each character in the party. Once it dispenses the pennants, the box disappears back into the wall and doesn’t work for the characters again.

 - [ ]  **Clue 3: Biblioplex Café**

- This clue refers to the Biblioplex Cafe in area B6.
- When the characters enter the cafe, they see several students enjoying drinks and snacks. Aisla Fitzbottom, the cafe manager, is a Strixhaven staff member and the only worker behind the counter at present. The characters must present their scavenger hunt list to Aisla. When they do, she tells them to come behind the counter and help her quickly restock the cafe’s sandwiches and baked goods from several modified Howard’s handy haversacks.
- If a character goes above and beyond in their assistance with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, Aisla gives that character a random trinket (from the magic items in the campaign book). Many students have ignored her requests for help during the orientation, she says, so she decides to make an exception with a gift from her own pockets. Plus, she likes the new students’ ambition.

 - [ ]  **Clue 4: Book Garden**

- This clue refers to the book gardens of area B9.
- When the characters enter a book garden, they see a lush arboretum. A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals that three of the shrubs are not ordinary greenery, but are instead awakened shrubs, each with a glistening crown of leaves. If a character uses an action to pat the shrubs on these leaves, the branches part to reveal a cuddly Strixhaven mascot, representing a random mascot. This magic works only once per character.

 - [ ]  **Clue 5: Amphitheater**

- This clue refers to the amphitheater in area B13.
- When the characters reach the amphitheater, they see an impressively lavish stage, with the curtains drawn back as if to reveal performers on the opening night of a major production. If a character recites, sings, hums, belches, or otherwise emits any line or tune while standing on the stage, bright floodlights snap on around the stage’s perimeter — a number of lights equal to the number of characters in the group. Approaching any of the lights reveals a recess in which lies a hooded lantern filled with oil.

 - [ ]  **That Trunk Has Teeth!**

- Once the characters have completed as much of the scavenger hunt as they wish, they hear a commotion coming from the west shelves of the main stacks in area B10. Read or paraphrase the following:
>The joyous and energetic atmosphere of the first floor is shattered by panicked shouting. “That trunk!” a young elf screams, pointing toward the stacks as she runs by. “That trunk has teeth! Please, anyone, stop it!”
Chaos erupts in the library as students stream in all directions, their books and papers flying as they shout in fear. The only faculty mages in sight are trying to deal with panicked students. You can't just let some monster ruin the first week. Time to step up!

- In the western part of area B8, the characters see a half dozen old trunks strewn about. Sheets, blankets, large wooden frames, and half-painted wooden props are scattered haphazardly around the tables where members of the Live-Action Roleplaying Guild were setting up for a show. Rampaging throughout the mess is a trunk that has been transformed into a mimic, which attacks the characters as soon as they enter the area. Because the mimic is only temporarily animated, it has the following changes to its stat block:
	- It has 30 hit points.
	- It has disadvantage on attack rolls.
- Once it's defeated, the mimic turns back into an ordinary trunk.
- If all the characters fall unconscious during the fight, Professor Mavinda Sharpbeak arrives on the scene at the start of the next round and finishes off the mimic. If the characters defeat the mimic, Professor Sharpbeak arrives on the scene shortly after the group dispatches it. She carries a bag of potions of healing, which she administers to any injured or unconscious characters.
- A guidance counselor at Strixhaven, Professor Sharpbeak was overseeing the orientation activities, but the mass of fleeing students prevented her from responding to the incident immediately. When she has assisted any wounded characters, she introduces herself.
>“Students, well done!” Professor Sharpbeak exclaims, ruffling her feathers with pride. "Such bravery in this incoming class! And what a bizarre occurrence. I can’t remember any of those old costume trunks ever bearing a hint of magic — let alone that manner of transmutation. I will be having a word with the equipment managers over at the Rose Stage. They’re supposed to keep this sort of thing from happening!”

- If the characters chat with the professor, she reassures them that this was an unfortunate incident — but sadly, not an unheard-of one, since strange monsters often find their way onto campus. Still, it’s nothing to worry about. Before she goes, she reaches into her bag and gives each character 1 platinum piece, thanking them again for their help and welcoming them to campus.

- Characters who examine the mimic and succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check notice that the defeated trunk’s wood and leather has been rubbed with a black, oily substance. If asked about this, Professor Sharpbeak says it’s likely just a leather conditioner. With no magic remaining in the eldritch balm to reveal the contamination, she has no explanation for why the trunk temporarily turned into a mimic and attacked.

##### Day 3: College and Advisor

 - [ ]  **Tour Each College**

- One item on the orientation checklist instructs the students to orient themselves to campus by visiting each of the five colleges, and getting a signature from one older student in that college.
- This is an opportunity for the players to meet a number of NPCs. Randomly select a student NPC for them to meet at each location.

 - [ ]  **Meet With an Advisor**

- Another item on the checklist lists the student's academic advisor, and instructs them to meet with them and complete their class schedule during the meeting.
- This is an opportunity for the players to meet a number of NPCs. Randomly select a professor NPC for each player.
- Have the players choose at least three courses their characters are taking this year, either by coming up with the courses themselves or by rolling on the First-Year Courses table. Inform them that the characters are also enrolled in a required course, Magical Physiologies.


| d6  | Course                        | Offered By      |
| --- | ----------------------------- | --------------- |
| 1   | Arcano-botany for Beginners   | Witherbloom     |
| 2   | Basic Magical Auras           | General Studies |
| 3   | Beginning Computational Magic | Quandrix        |
| 4   | Beginning Inkomancy           | Silverquill     |
| 5   | History of Magic and Art      | Prismari        |
| 6   | Introduction to Archaeomancy  | Lorehold        |

##### Day 4: Extracurricular and Job Fair

- All the available extracurricular activities and jobs are on display across the Biblioplex. Each student should be encouraged to get involved in at least one (with a maximum of two allowed). If any player visits a location outside of the Biblioplex that has a job (such as the Firejolt Café), then a job could be offered to them there as well.

 - [ ]  **Extracurriculars**

- Extracurriculars — the campus clubs and societies students can join — are a key part of student life at Strixhaven. Using the rules that follow, characters can join Extracurriculars to add flavor to adventures, gain minor rules benefits, and perhaps more easily befriend — or irritate — their classmates.
- At any point during the book’s adventures, a character can gain the benefit of two of the Extracurriculars noted below, as described later in this section. If a student character also works on campus using the Job rules, the character can benefit from only one Extracurricular.
- Characters can gain the benefit from a new Extracurricular only by joining it at the start of an academic year, which corresponds to the beginning of a new adventure. Typically, joining an Extracurricular in between academic years isn’t eventful. Players should note the changes on their tracking sheet.
- While a student participates in an Extracurricular, they gain a Student Die and a Relationship Point:
	- **Student Dice**. Each character gains one Student Die for each Extracurricular they are participating in. A Student Die is a d4 the player can roll and add to an ability check that the character makes, provided the check uses one of the skills listed in the Extracurricular’s description. The player can wait until after rolling the d20 before rolling the Student Die, but must do so before you say whether the check succeeds or fails. No more than one Student Die can be rolled per check. After rolling a Student Die, a player can't roll it again until the character finishes a long rest.
	- **Relationship Point**. While a student participates in an Extracurricular, the student gains either a positive or a negative Relationship Point (the player’s choice) with one student NPC who is also a member of the Extracurricular.
- Characters can quit an Extracurricular at any time, updating their tracking sheet accordingly. When a student quits an Extracurricular, they immediately lose its benefits. If a character quits during an adventure, you might want to roleplay the situation, since NPCs are likely to take an interest in why the student is leaving.

| Extracurricular                       | Skills                       | Members                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Area |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| Dead Languages Society                | Athletics, History           | Drazhomir Yarnask, Quentillius A. Melentor III        | These linguistics lovers take advantage of Strixhaven’s deep repository of tomes written in ancient and near-extinct languages, teaching themselves these tongues and often translating their favorite works. | B10  |
| Distinguished Society of Fine Artists | Performance, Sleight of Hand | Cadoras Damellawar, Nora Ann Wu                       | These painters, sculptors, printmakers, and mosaic artists gather to create fine works and to discuss the latest techniques and trends in the world of art.                                                   | B12  |
| Dragonchess Club                      | Deception. Investigation     | Bhedum “Rampart” Sooviij, Tilana Kapule               | These experts in the game of dragonchess discuss the latest in strategy, compete against one another, and test out homemade variations of game rules.                                                         | B14  |
| Dragonsguard Historical Society       | Arcana. History              | Bhedum “Rampart” Sooviij                              | These historians are fascinated by all time periods, and they regularly meet to discuss, debate, and deep dive into members’ favorite topics.                                                                 | B14  |
| Fantastical FIorticulture Club        | Nature, Survival             | Urzmaktok Grojsh                                      | These green-thumbed experts love mixing magic and gardening to create new strains of vegetation, many of which they cultivate on campus.                                                                      | B9   |
| Future Entrepreneurs of Strixhaven    | Insight, Persuasion          | Grayson Wildemere                                     | These enterprising students discuss business theories. They often create small start-ups to sell wares and services appealing to students. The funds they generate fuel the club’s activities.                | B14  |
| Intramural Gymnastics Club            | Acrobatics, Performance      | Zanther Bowen                                         | These graceful gymnasts work to hone their craft, and they compete against each other in dazzling floor routines.                                                                                             | B14  |
| Intramural Silkball Club              | Athletics, Intimidation      | Javenesh Stoutclaw, Melwythorne, Tilana Kapule        | These hardy athletes train together and compete in the rough-and-tumble Strixhaven game of silkball, which is played in muddy fields with balls made of spider silk.                                          | B14  |
| Intramural Water-Dancing Club         | Athletics, Performance       | Larine Arneza                                         | These swimming enthusiasts combine their athletic skills with the finesse of artists as they choreograph water dances to the latest popular songs.                                                            | B14  |
| Live-Action Roleplaying Guild         | Animal Handling, Performance | Cadoras Damellawar, Rosimyffenbip “Rosie” Wuzfeddlims | These storytelling enthusiasts engage in a mix of strategy and playacting—often involving mascots—when they enact fantastical narratives that they resolve with special rules.                                | B8   |
| Mage Tower Cheer Squad                | Perception, Persuasion       | Zanther Bowen                                         | With their coordinated cheers, outfits, and school spirit, these cheerleaders inspire pride in the official Strixhaven University Mage Tower teams.                                                           | B14  |
| Playactors Drama Guild                | Arcana, Deception            | Quentillius A. Melentor III, Rubina Larkingdale       | These actors work together to create productions of brilliant stagecraft, often involving new spins on old classics as well as displays of magic and music.                                                   | B13  |
| Strixhaven Iron-Lifters Society       | Athletics, Medicine          | Greta Gorunn                                          | These bodybuilders support each other in developing strong muscles and even stronger friendships.                                                                                                             | B14  |
| Strixhaven Show Band Association      | Sleight of Hand, Performance | Aurora Luna Wynterstarr, Rubina Larkingdale           | These music enthusiasts play instruments such as hurdy-gurdies, bagpipes, flutes, and drums, and they regularly perform rousing concerts.                                                                     | B14  |
| Strixhaven Star                       | Investigation, Insight       | Grayson Wildemere, Mina Lee                           | These truth seekers and wordsmiths report on campus news, regularly interviewing important figures and producing the monthly Strixhaven Star newspaper, which is distributed across the campus.               | B14  |
| Student-Mages of Faith                | Insight, Religion            | Melwythorne, Shuvadri Glintmantle                     | These pious students of many faiths gather to share prayers and theological debates and to celebrate one another’s high holidays.                                                                             | B14  |

 - [ ]  **Jobs**

- Working in gainful employment while at school can provide a character with a modicum of cash and help forge connections with student coworkers. The coworker listed in the table below represents each job location and can be found in the area listed.
- A character can hold one Job at a time, and they can participate in only one Extracurricular while they have a Job. A student can switch Jobs whenever they wish, even in the middle of the academic year, as long as they don’t work more than one Job at a time. At your discretion, switching Jobs in the middle of the year might lead to a roleplaying scenario.
- While a student has a Job, they earn a wage and a Relationship Point:
	- **Wage**. A student who works a Job gains 5 gp at the start of each week that they hold the Job. If a student quits during the academic year, they stop earning this money at the end of the week in which they quit.
	- **Relationship Point**. While a character works a Job, they gain a positive or negative Relationship Point (the player’s choice) with one student NPC at that Job. This represents a coworker with whom the character is often scheduled and with whom they can easily form a connection.

| Location                           | Jobs                                                                                                                       | Coworker                              | Area |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---- |
| Biblioplex                         | Book clerk, book shelver, cafe worker, cleanup crew member, garden tender, store worker                                    | Drazhomir Yarnask                     | B2   |
| Bow’s End Tavern                   | Assistant manager, cleanup crew member, cook, host, server                                                                 | Javenesh Stoutclaw                    | B3   |
| Campus Grounds                     | Graffiti eraser, lawn manicurist, litter retriever, sidewalk sweeper, statuary repairer, trash collector                   | Shuvadri Glintmantle                  | B4   |
| Campus Magic Labs                  | Cleanup crew member, specimen preparer, volunteer lab partner                                                              | Urzmaktok Grojsh                      | B8   |
| Dormitories                        | Cleanup crew member, events assistant, front desk worker, resident assistant                                               | Nora Ann Wu                           | B2   |
| Firejolt Café                      | Barista, cashier, cleanup crew member, server                                                                              | Mina Lee                              | B3   |
| Intramural Fields                  | Cleanup crew member, crowd manager, equipment assistant, groundskeeper, referee                                            | Rosimyffenbip “Rosie” Wuzfeddlims     | B4   |
| Strixhaven Performing Arts Society | Cleanup crew member, general assistant, refreshments expert, stagehand, ticket taker, usher                                | Larine Arneza                         | B13  |
| Strixhaven Stadium                 | Cleanup crew member, entertainment assistant, equipment assistant, groundskeeper, refreshments expert, ticket taker, usher | Aurora Luna Wynterstarr, Greta Gorunn | B4   |

##### Day 5: Pep Rally and Secret Party

 - [ ]  **Pep Rally**

- Students of all ages gather at The Rose Stage for a celebration of the new year at Strixhaven. Each college is already seated in their own section when the first years arrive, where they are seated separately. The colleges are decked out in their colors and accompanied by their mascots.
- This is just another opportunity to show off the various colleges, and allow players to converse with other students if they choose.
- There should also be a speech/presentation by one of the main deans as well. What to cover?

 - [ ]  **Secret Party**

- Any PC who has made enough friends might be invited to a party that happens on the last night of Orientation Week. This party is not sanctioned by the school administration, so it held in secret at The Rose Stage after hours. Have each player roll a d10. If they roll at or under the number of NPCs they've talked to that week, then one of those NPCs (a Friend if they've made one) invites them to the party after the Pep Rally.
- 

#### Week 3: Frog's the Word

 - [ ]  **Introducing the Firejolt Café**

- At some point during the weeks that follow their orientation and the start of classes, the characters are hanging out together on the central campus. Another student is part of this scene — ideally a student the characters have interacted with, or you may choose another student from the “Fellow Students” section. When you’re ready to begin this event, read or paraphrase the following, altering the text to incorporate the student’s name or other details:
>Murmurs of excited curiosity ripple through the clusters of students around you, and another student suddenly barrels toward you, laughing uproariously.
Seeing no faculty nearby, the student beckons to the characters.
“You’ve all got to see this!” the student chortles. “We found these weird frogs and snuck them into the Fireside Lounge at Firejolt Café, and now we’re going to race the little hoppers! Quick! Come see before the professors find out!”

- The characters are meant to join the festivities in the nearby Firejolt Café. If a player or character expresses reluctance, mention as motivation that other students the characters have interacted with during this adventure are already there.
- Firejolt Café is the most popular place at Strixhaven to grab tea or coffee, chat with friends, or study among the hustle and bustle of a typical day on campus. The café’s interior is clean and well lit, and its walls are decorated with fun, cartoonish scenes animated by permanent illusion magic. Well-known scenes include a jovial frog in a wizard’s hat stirring a cauldron, a dancing trio of lightning bolts with grinning faces, and a raven wearing a cravat and sipping daintily from a cup of coffee held in one wing.
- **Firejolt Café Features**. The café has the following features:
	- **Ceilings**. The café’s ceilings are 20 feet high.
	- **Doors**. At night, the exterior doors to the café are closed, locked, and sealed with an arcane lock spell. A successful DC 25 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools opens the lock (DC 35 while the arcane lock is in effect). Only certain faculty members and Ellina Tanglewood, the café’s manager (see area F3), know the arcane lock’s password.
	- **Magic Steps**. The steps marking the edge of each tier of the study area are enchanted to move and reshape themselves for full accessibility.
	- **Students**. Students of all years and colleges can be found in Firejolt Café.

 - [ ]  **F1. Study Tables**

- These long benches sit atop two raised tiers with magic steps between them, affording easy access to the seating area below. Some thirty students are typically here during the day, studying quietly.

 - [ ]  **F2. Seating Area**

- This area is usually more crowded than the café’s study tables. At least fifty students sit sociably in groups, chatting and having tea and coffee. The open spaces in the north part of this area are typically filled with students waiting to join the queue at the barista station or scouting for a good place to sit.

 - [ ]  **F3. Barista Station**

- This bustling service counter is the demesne of Ellina Tanglewood, the Strixhaven employee who manages the café and serves as its chief barista. Ellina typically works alongside five older student employees, one from each college, though she sometimes hires younger students who express interest in working for her.
- The front counter of the barista station is a whirl of chaos while Ellina and the other employees deal with the orders of dozens of students and faculty members. The back of the station is calmer, and includes a small break area for employees as well as shelves for personal belongings and café supplies.
- The café strictly sells coffee and tea, but Ellina and the other talented baristas can make nearly any form of those drinks on request. A relatively common coffee or tea costs 1 cp, while a more complicated order might cost 2 cp. The café’s signature firejolt latte costs 10 gp; it confers resistance to fire for 1 minute after drinking it, and it can be brewed only by Ellina using her fire magic.

 - [ ]  **F4. Newsstand**

- This small store inside Firejolt Café sells magazines, knickknacks, posters, stickers, and other decorative and leisure items. The subjects of the magazines are all magic themed, with titles ranging from Mages Monthly to Potions! Potions! Potions! to Spells and Caster. Staff members at the barista station take turns working the newsstand, which sometimes closes when the café is particularly busy. Most items here cost 1 cp, though higher-end items might be available at your discretion.

 - [ ]  **F5. Fireside Lounge**

- Much more comfortable than the café’s other seating areas, this lounge is filled with sofas and armchairs where students can relax away from the hubbub. Fireplaces in the northern corners are lit by continual flame spells. Some twenty students are typically found here, using the tables to study quietly.

 - [ ]  **F6. Quiet Room**

- As with the fireside lounge, these rooms are quieter than the café’s main seating areas. However, with large tables and more functional chairs, they’re more oriented toward studying and completing classwork. Up to ten students are typically found in each of these rooms, engaged in quiet study.

 - [ ]  **A Great Frog Race**

- Characters following the student who invited them to the frog race are led to the fireside lounge (area F5) of Firejolt Café. As in the scene above, the student speaking in this scene should be a student the characters have interacted with. Read or paraphrase the following, altering the text to incorporate the student’s name or other details:
>The air buzzes with excitement—and the smell of coffee—as you make your way toward the back of Firejolt Café and duck into the lounge to witness the scene.
>Hidden from the view of the barista station, the lounge’s central table has been pushed toward the wall and its chairs haphazardly tossed out of the way. In the middle of the room hop four unusual frogs. Each is glowing in vibrant colors—red, blue, violet, and orange—and has been outfitted with a tiny costume. One wears a makeshift cape, another has suspenders, a third wears a stylish bow tie, and the fourth has a top hat perched jauntily on its head.
>Someone has used chalk to mark lanes on the floor, and multiple students are trying to corral the frogs into a starting position.

- A student notices the characters and shouts, “You’re just in time! Want to race these frogs with us?”
- The amphibians in the lounge are four frogs that students found outside the café and smuggled inside. The frogs’ glowing colors appear to be the result of some magic the students haven’t been able to source. The costumes — and the frog race that is afoot! — were the students’ ideas. For the race, a single student will “coach” each frog toward the finish. The winning coach will receive bragging rights — as well as a purse of donations from the crowd that totals 30 gp.

 - [ ]  **Participating in the Race**

- A character can participate in the fun in one of the following ways:
	- **Race a Frog.** A character might coach one of the frogs, encouraging it toward the finish line with words, gestures, and other antics. The character can urge their frog to victory with a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. Encourage a player to really sell this scene by naming their frog and coming up with ways to inspire it. If one of the characters succeeds on this Wisdom check, that character’s frog wins the race. (If more than one character succeeds, it’s a tie, and those characters split the 30 gp prize.) If no characters win the race, roll a d4 to randomly determine which frog wins.
	- **Cheer a Coach.** A character might shout encouragement to one of the coaches. If the encouraged coach is another player character, that character gains advantage on their Wisdom (Animal Handling) check to coach the frog. If the coach is an NPC, any characters racing a frog receive disadvantage on their check.
	- **Heckle a Coach.** A character might taunt one of the coaches. If the heckled coach is another player character, that character has disadvantage on their Wisdom (Animal Handling) check to coach the frog. If the coach is an NPC, that student’s frog automatically loses the race.

 - [ ]  **They’ve Gone Berserk!**

- After the race ends, the four frogs start belching strangely, and their eyes turn red. As the characters and the other students look on, the frogs suddenly grow into four giant frogs, shredding their makeshift costumes and furiously lashing out at the crowd!
- The other students scatter, and it’s up to the characters to subdue the giant frogs. Luckily for any character who has grown attached to a frog, any frog reduced to 0 hit points becomes docile, and its eyes return to normal. Alternatively, a character can use an action to coax a frog into shaking off the malady affecting it with a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check. On a success, a frog becomes docile again and stops attacking. After 1 minute, each docile frog reverts back to normal size and appearance.

`encounter: 4: Giant Frog`

 - [ ]  **Ending the Threat and Examining the Frogs**

- If all the characters fall unconscious, café manager Ellina Tanglewood rushes onto the scene and subdues the frogs. She has two potions of healing behind the barista station and can administer them as needed if anyone gets hurt.
- Once the frogs are no longer threats, a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals that the frogs belched out a strange, black oily substance just before they grew in size and attacked. It appears to be the same substance found on the trunk during orientation; indeed, Murgaxor coaxed the frogs to ingest some of the corrupted eldritch balm to cause their transformation. Any character who notices the oily substance also can tell that it smells slightly sweet, which likely encouraged the frogs to ingest it.

#### Week 5: Magical Physiologies Exam: Slaadi

- The characters are enrolled together in the course Magical Physiologies, which is held in a lecture hall in the Biblioplex (one of the areas marked B7). The course covers the anatomy, abilities, and dispositions of monsters commonly encountered while adventuring. Students read popular accounts related to Aberrations, Monstrosities, and Oozes, as well as studying how best to either avoid a fight with such creatures or battle them and emerge triumphant. The class’s professor is Verelda Lang, a respected arcano-biologist who teaches Quandrix College courses in addition to her Witherbloom College and general education offerings.

 - [ ]  **Studying Phase**

- In the days before the Exam, the characters can study the course material. A character can use any ability check and skill during the Studying phase.
- Once you’ve asked each player how their character is approaching the Studying phase, resolve that phase by having each character who studies make a DC 12 ability check. Make sure players keep track of their characters’ rerolls and apply them during the Testing phase.

 - [ ]  **Testing Phase**

- On the day of the Exam, each character makes two ability checks related to parts of the test:
	- **Slaad Facts**. Choosing the correct multiple choice answers to questions about red, blue, green, gray, and death slaadi requires a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
	- **Defusing Slaad Confrontations**. Writing short essays about commonly accepted ways to keep slaadi calm during unexpected encounters requires a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Insight) check.
- Have each player note their character’s Exam results — how many Student Dice they gained and what skills they used during the test — on their copies of the tracking sheet.

> [!info] All About Slaadi
> To give this Exam more flavor, describe some of the facts the characters are trying to memorize, such as the following:
> - Slaadi are Aberrations known for their regenerative abilities and magic resistance.
> - All slaadi are dangerous and unpredictable, but red slaadi and blue slaadi are the least powerful and don’t cast spells.
> - Red slaadi can use a gland under one of their claws to implant an egg into a Humanoid. The egg eventually becomes a tadpole that bursts from the host’s body and transforms into a full-grown blue slaad, or a green slaad if the host could cast spells of 3rd level or higher.
> - Green, gray, and death slaadi can shape-shift into Small or Medium Humanoids.
> - A green slaad usually wields a staff and can hurl both fireballs and magical flames at its foes.
> - Death slaadi are rumored to have a stench so bad it can be deadly. In reality, they can cast the cloudkill spell.
> - Inexperienced scholars and adventurers sometimes assume that “slaad” is a misspelling or mispronunciation. Calling these creatures “salads” is frowned upon.

#### Week 7: Bow's End Tavern

- A few weeks after their first Magical Physiologies Exam, the characters are milling about the central campus when they see some fellow students heading for Bow’s End Tavern, which has just opened for the evening. Another student is part of this scene — ideally a student the characters have interacted with, or you may choose another student at random. When you’re ready to begin this event, read or paraphrase the following, altering the text to incorporate the student’s name or other details:

>As students mill around the central campus, whoops of excitement fill the air. It’s 6:00 p.m., and Bow’s End Tavern is open! On the tavern’s patio, three student mages with brightly colored hair begin to sing a jaunty tune and pluck at dulcimers as a crowd heads in that direction.
>A student next to the characters shouts to them excitedly.
>“I heard they’ve finally got some wizard gizzard machines in there!” the student says. “You have to come play with us!”

- If a player or character expresses reluctance, have the student talk up the game of Wizard Gizzard and the people already at the tavern to persuade the characters to join them for the game.
- Bow’s End Tavern is Strixhaven’s most popular late-night hangout. It opens at 6:00 p.m. and closes at 11:00 p.m. on class nights and 2:00 a.m. on weekends. Outside of those hours, the tavern is locked and devoid of other students or staff, except for Tulk Tusktooth and a few staff members who perform cleaning duties during the day.
- The tavern is a squat but comfortable-looking building, its gleaming wooden exterior carved in overlapping Strixhaven star motifs. The interior is dim and cozy (if loud), featuring rich mahogany floors and well-worn furniture of oak and black leather. Live musical acts often set up on the tavern’s patio, including performing groups made up of students, faculty, and staff alike.
- **Bow’s End Tavern Features**. The tavern has the following features:
	- **Lighting**. The magical lights inside the tavern are muted, but creatures can still see normally in all areas.
	- **Ceilings**. The tavern’s ceilings are 20 feet high.
	- **Doors**. After closing, all exterior doors to the patio and tavern are closed, locked, and sealed with an arcane lock spell. A successful DC 25 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools opens the lock (DC 35 while the arcane lock is in effect). Only certain student employees and Tulk “The Bulk” Tusktooth, the tavern’s manager (see area E3), know the arcane lock’s password.
	- **Magic Steps**. The steps marking the boundary between the overflow seating area (area E4) and the main dining room (area E2) are enchanted to move and reshape themselves for full accessibility.
	- **Patrons**. Students of all years and colleges can be found in Firejolt Café.

 - [ ]  **E1. Patio Seating**

- This outdoor seating area is fenced off and is open to tavern customers and noncustomers alike. The patio doors and the front doors leading into the building are closed except when the tavern is open.
- Up to thirty-five students can typically be found here during opening hours, eating and chatting. Additionally, at least two older student employees work in this area as servers.

 - [ ]  **E2. Main Dining Room**

- The most crowded area of the tavern is filled with students. At opening hour, the tavern’s seating is arranged neatly, as shown on the map. In short order, though, student patrons shift the tables and chairs to accommodate the hangouts, tavern games, and other shenanigans happening in this area.
- Anywhere from fifty to seventy students are typically found here, eating, drinking, and socializing. Additionally, at least four older student employees work in this area as servers.

 - [ ]  **E3. Servers’ Station and Bar**

- The server’s station stands at the center of Bow’s End Tavern, where up to four older student employees make drinks for the tavern’s patrons and pass orders for food to the kitchen.
- The food on offer at the tavern includes caster’s stew — a hearty bowl of venison, gravy, and root vegetables, served with mashed potatoes and thick-cut toast. Curtie’s Special is named for Chef Curtie Axechucker (see area E6) and rotates between dishes she calls “garden surprise,” “magister’s delight,” “macaroni and sausages,” and “rat ratatouille.” No one knows the ingredients used in these dishes, though servers always ask patrons about possible allergies. The table below lists the tavern’s menu and prices.
- The bar surrounding the servers’ station serves a variety of drinks. This area is often rowdy, so student employee Javenesh Stoutclaw remains watchful. From thirty-five to forty-five students are typically found at the bar.
- The tavern’s manager also keeps an eye on this area. Tulk “The Bulk” Tusktooth is a Strixhaven employee with a kind demeanor but no tolerance for misbehavior. Tulk’s nickname comes from his imposing physical presence at a burly, muscle-bound height of nearly seven feet — though his warm smile gleams as brightly as his signature golden earring. He is a good friend to Javenesh Stoutclaw, and anyone who puts the owlin in danger must answer to Tulk.

| Food or Beverage     | Cost |
|----------------------|------|
| Water                | Free |
| Coffee, cola, or tea | 1 cp |
| Premium fare         | 4 cp |
| Caster’s stew        | 2 sp |
| Curtie’s special     | 2 sp |

 - [ ]  **E4. Overflow Seating**

- The quietest part of the tavern, this seating area is the place students go to escape the noise of the main dining room. From ten to twenty students are usually found in this area, relaxing or engaged in conversation. Additionally, at least one older student employee can be found working here as a server.

 - [ ]  **E5. Back Exit**

- These areas afford access to the small stalls that serve as privies for the tavern and each feature a door that leads to the tavern’s back lot. These exits are marked “Staff Only” but aren’t locked during operating hours, acting as loading areas for receiving supplies throughout the night.

 - [ ]  **E6. Kitchen**

- The tavern’s food orders are prepared in this large kitchen, overseen by Curtie Axechucker, a Strixhaven employee and beloved personality on campus. Chef Curtie views cooking as an art, and she teaches the four students who work for her to cook using hunches and passion instead of precision or science.
- Curtie lives by her teachings (and is said to augment her culinary creations with a little bit of magic), so that no two dishes she or her apprentices cook are ever the same. The chef’s signature cries of “Make it spicy!” and “It needs more love!” frequently echo from the kitchen into the overflow seating area. The chef hires all student cooks, so characters who wish to work in the kitchen must approach her directly.
- The most prominent features in the kitchen are the cooking cauldrons along the north wall, which are always bubbling with strange and wonderful concoctions. A small break room is set in the northwest corner of the kitchen, while a pantry takes up much of the east wall.

 - [ ]  **Wizard Gizzard!**

- Characters following the student who invited them to play Wizard Gizzard are led to the main dining room (area E2) of Bow’s End Tavern. Read or paraphrase the following:
>Along one side of the tavern’s main dining room, the tables and chairs have been shifted to create a large, rectangular open space. On the south side of this space, a single table stands flush against the wall. On it are a few strange-looking boxes with funnels protruding from them at an angle. Twenty feet opposite the table, a small bucket rests on the floor.

- The devices on the table are called wizard gizzards. Instructors use them to help student-mages practice their aim with magical rays. When a character strikes the top of a wizard gizzard, it shoots a sphere made of magic out of its attached funnel. The sphere dissipates whenever it touches anything — a ray, a creature, or a hard surface, for example.
- These minor magic items have a short life span, and as they age, they begin to emit loud clucking noises when they shoot their spheres. Students joke that the spheres begin to look like gizzards, hence their name. Every term, students collect cast-off wizard gizzards that have grown too unpredictable for classroom use and then use the wizard gizzards in the game of the same name. This night at Bow’s End Tavern is the first such event of the term, and enthusiasm is running high.

 - [ ]  **Playing the Game**

- In this scene, the characters have the opportunity to play a game of Wizard Gizzard for a prize. A character can participate in the fun in one of the following ways:
	- **Play the Game**. The rules are simple: lob a sphere from the wizard gizzard and have the sphere land inside the bucket on the floor. The game takes 1 minute to play, and the character who lands the most spheres in the bucket during that minute wins the game. To determine how many spheres a character lands in the bucket, have the character make a Dexterity (Arcana) check and divide the total by 3 (round down). If two or more characters land the same number of spheres in the bucket, have those characters repeat the check during a tiebreaker round. Continue to run tiebreaker rounds until one character wins.
	- **Encourage a Participant**. If a character shouts encouragement to a participant, that participant has advantage on their Dexterity (Arcana) check.
	- **Heckle a Participant**. If a character jeers at a participant, that participant has disadvantage on their Dexterity (Arcana) check.
- After setting the scene and explaining the rules, reveal that a bag of tricks (gray) will be awarded to the winner of the next game. The bag belongs to Javenesh Stoutclaw, a second-year Lorehold College student and the tavern’s assistant manager. Javenesh doesn’t need the bag and is entertained by watching first-year students compete to win. He also secretly hopes that sponsoring the game might win him more friends on campus.

 - [ ]  **Chaos in the Kitchen**

- Even as the game of Wizard Gizzard ends and a winner is declared, Bow’s End Tavern erupts into pandemonium. Read or paraphrase the following:
>Panicked shouting erupts from the tavern’s kitchen. Chef Curtie, her braided hair flapping wildly, emerges at a run, shouting and waving her arms.
>“The steam! It’s too spicy!” she cries. “It’s trying to kill us! Someone, please help!”
>The tavern is so busy that most of its patrons don’t immediately notice Curtie’s panic. Tulk Tusktooth does, but he’s momentarily overwhelmed by those students in the overflow seating who have noticed — and who are trying to get away from the kitchen as fast as they can. You have a clear path to the kitchen door — and Curtie needs help!

- When the characters enter area E6, they find the kitchen’s student cooks unconscious on the floor, while four steam mephits fly around the cauldrons. As in the previous scenes, one of the cooks can be another student the characters have interacted with, filling in for an absent cook for the evening.
- The hostile mephits attack as soon as the characters appear, but they aren’t the only threat in the kitchen. Horrid masses of summoned skittering bugs suddenly pour out of bags and boxes of ingredients in the food prep areas, just as other students storm into the kitchen behind the characters. While the characters take on the more dangerous mephits, describe their friends and fellow students working in the background alongside them to help clear the bugs out of the kitchen. As soon as the mephits are dispatched, the magic flaring up in the kitchen fades.

`encounter: 4: Steam Mephit`

 - [ ]  **Ending the Threat**

- If all the characters fall unconscious during the fight, Tulk shows up at the start of the next round and dispatches the mephits. Tulk has two potions of healing stored behind the servers’ station, and he offers them to any injured characters. If the discussion turns to what happened, Tulk explains that sometimes Curtie’s culinary experiments go awry, so such chaos in the kitchen isn’t unheard of. For her part, Curtie insists that the mephits were not part of any new recipe test, and that they came out of nowhere.
- Once the mephits are dispatched, a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals the same oily black substance on the cauldrons that the characters might have seen belched out by the frogs before the Firejolt Café race and found on the trunk during orientation. If the characters ask either Tulk Tusktooth or Curtie Axechucker about the substance, both suspect that one of the many magic unguents used on campus might have gotten corrupted. They have no way of knowing that Murgaxor’s corrupted eldritch balm is the unguent in question and no idea what else might be affected.

#### Week 9: Magical Physiologies Exam: Owlbears (Midterm)

- The characters’ second Exam in Magical Physiologies takes place a few weeks after the Wizard Gizzard game and sees students tested on their knowledge of owlbears.

 - [ ]  **Studying Phase**

- The days before the Exam, a character can study the course material. A character can use any ability check and skill during this Studying phase.
- Once you’ve asked each player how their character is approaching the Studying phase, resolve that phase by having each character who studies make a DC 12 ability check. Make sure players keep track of their characters’ rerolls from this phase and apply them during the Testing phase.

 - [ ]  **Testing Phase**

- On the day of the Exam, each character makes two ability checks related to parts of the test:
	- **Owlbear Disposition and Habits**. Choosing the correct multiple choice answers regarding owlbears’ hunting, eating, mating, fighting, and living habits requires a successful DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) check.
	- **Owlbear Companions**. Writing short essays on common methods for taming, training, and handling owlbears and on keeping owlbears as companions requires a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check.
- Have each player note their character’s Exam results — how many Student Dice they gained and what skills they used during the test — on their copies of the tracking sheet.


> [!info] All About Owlbears
> To give this Exam more flavor, describe some of the facts the characters are trying to memorize, such as the following:
> - Owlbears are aggressive and often ill-tempered carnivores. They are known to attack without provocation.
> - Owlbears most often live in caves or ruins. The bones of their prey serve as their beds and playgrounds.
> - Owlbears attack with their razor-sharp beaks and claws.
> - Many scholars believe a kooky wizard created the first owlbear in a breeding experiment gone awry. However, some elves claim owlbears have always existed in the Feywild.
> - Although they aren’t naturally drawn to cupcakes and muffins, these foods are known to quell an owlbear’s foul temper. Arcano-biologists believe they quell the creatures’ rumbling acid reflux.
> - Owlbears respond best to training that mimics exactly what their trainer wishes them to do. Crawling on one’s hands and knees is often the best way to teach an owlbear to be a mount, for example.
> - An owlbear’s screech sounds vaguely similar to the cry of an enormous owl with terrible indigestion. Owls don’t suffer from indigestion, though, making this a sure sign that an owlbear is nearby.

 - [ ]  **Midterm Break**

- After the exam, as students are going their separate ways to prepare for midterm break, the characters overhear their peers talking excitedly about certain magical and monstrous creatures’ likenesses being used in the upcoming Rose Stage Festival, an improvisational outdoor play (see “All the World’s a Stage” later in the next adventure).
- The characters might hear any of the following remarks. The first two rumors are more or less true, while the second two aren’t:
	- **Owlbear Prop**. “The Playactors Drama Guild has combined the hide of a bear and an owl head taxidermy to create a weird owlbear prop.”
	- **Basilisk Prop**. “A prop at this year’s festival uses flashes of light to simulate a gaze attack, just like a basilisk.”
	- **Chimera Prop**. “The drama guild plans to use dragon, goat, and lion puppets to simulate a chimera. Someone has figured out how to magically replicate those creatures’ sounds.
	- **Black Dragon Prop**. “Someone wants to summon and control a real young black dragon on stage. No way will that work!”

- At this point the players should be allowed to do whatever they'd like on campus during their two week downtime. First year students are not allowed to leave campus though, and must return to their dorms every night.

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- At the end of Orientation Week, the players should level up to 2nd level. At the end of this adventure (midterm of their first year), the players should level up to 3rd level.

### References

* Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 3
