 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The strange happenings on campus in this adventure are caused by a corrupted substance known as eldritch balm. Used at Strixhaven for decades, eldritch balm is an alchemical salve made from the sludgy, acidic waters of Sedgemoor, the bayou that encompasses the Witherbloom College campus. Once these waters undergo an alchemical process in Witherbloom’s faculty laboratories, the resulting eldritch balm is used to magically treat and strengthen objects, from storage trunks to cooking vats to stage props and more. The balm’s effects differ depending on the objects treated, but it typically provides resistance to certain types of damage or other protections useful on a campus where magic often goes awry.
* Unknown to anyone on campus, Sedgemoor’s waters were recently corrupted by the foul magic practiced by Murgaxor Grenshel, the villain the characters will likely face at the end of this year. Murgaxor intended the eldritch balm to be affected by his sinister experiments and hoped the resulting chaos would disrupt life at Strixhaven.

### Characters and Locations

* 

* 

### Scenes and Situations

The scenes below are broken out into the adventures from the Strixhaven book (Chapter 3, second half), organized into weeks appropriate to fill an entire academic semester. On the "off weeks" from what's presented here, downtime activities are happening for each of the players, so ask what they're doing between these scenes. Classes are presumed to be happening during the entire course of the semester, and exams are only called out for the sake of mechanics.

#### Week 11: Campus Daredevils

 - [ ]  Introduction

- A few weeks after their second Magical Physiologies Exam, on the first day back from midterm break, a student the characters have interacted with before (or a random student) rushes up to one of the characters, stuffs a handwritten note into their grasp, winks, and dashes away. The note is crumpled and slightly damp. It reads:
>“Big heroes on campus! You’re the talk of the school, what with your monster-dispatching ways. But can you recover the legendary Sassy Sally Jane? Many have tried. All have failed. Meet us outside Captain Dapplewing’s Manor at midnight tonight and see if you’ve got what it takes!”

- The note isn’t signed, but will be later revealed as coming from a student the characters know.
- The characters have several hours before their peers are expecting them at midnight, so allow them to prepare for this outing any way they wish. Provide them with the following information, and then when they’re ready, go to the “Recover Sassy Sally Jane” section below.

- The talk of the campus for decades, Sassy Sally Jane is a pink-haired doll in a patchwork tartan dress. Inside the doll is a voice box that some clever students rigged to repeat rude phrases whenever the doll’s hand is squeezed. Jokesters used it to irritate faculty and staff members extensively before it was confiscated. The doll has sat in the attic of Captain Dapplewing’s Manor ever since, alongside other broken, malfunctioning, or forbidden items.
- Captain Dapplewing’s manor house is used as a learning annex by esteemed dual-college faculty members and their favored students.
- A two-story home, the house is located on the central campus and serves as both faculty offices and the setting for lavish dinner parties and intellectual gatherings. A character knows all the information in the “Captain Dapplewing’s Manor” section later in this adventure with a successful DC 12 Intelligence (History) check.

 - [ ]  **Recover Sassy Sally Jane**

- Once the characters are prepared, they can make their way to Captain Dapplewing’s Manor. It’s easy to find on the central campus, since a well-lit path leads right up to the house, and a few students are milling around outside. Once they notice the characters heading their way, these students get visibly excited.
- Another student is part of this scene — ideally a student the characters have interacted with, or another radom student. When you’re ready to begin this event, read or paraphrase the following:
>As the bright light of the central campus fades into the verdant grounds of Captain Dapplewing’s Manor, you see a small group of your peers congregated underneath a massive oak tree in the manor’s front yard.

- One student turns to another and says in a stage whisper, “I told you they’d arrive! Now pay up, you goof!” Turning to the characters, the student points to the manor house and says:
>“This is it. Sassy Sally Jane is up there in the attic. For years, people have tried to liberate her. For years, they’ve failed. But we think this year is different. This year, you’re on campus.”
>“You’re looking for a pink-haired doll wearing a patchwork tartan dress. Now, go in there and become campus legends. If you can bring her back, we’ll all pay for your lunches for a week. No, for a month!”

- If the characters are hesitant to take this dare, a student with whom a character has at least 1 Relationship Point approaches them. The student misses their younger brother terribly and has decided that Sassy Sally Jane would make an excellent gift. The student offers the characters a driftglobe in exchange for retrieving Sassy Sally Jane and giving them the doll.

 - [ ]  **Captain Dapplewing’s Manor**

- Tucked at the end of a leafy path on the central campus, Captain Dapplewing’s Manor is a quiet relaxation spot for elite faculty as well as a place of academic meditation and counseling for their students. The manor dates to the earliest days of Strixhaven, when the owlin mage and military veteran Captain Raymous Dapplewing held faculty appointments in both Lorehold and Silverquill Colleges. Wanting a quiet place to retire in the evenings — and to host lavish dinner-parties-turned-colloquiums — the professor used his significant military pension to build this manor house on campus.
- Upon his death, Captain Dapplewing bequeathed the manor to the university, which honored his legacy by giving the house his name and keeping most of its original furnishings in pristine condition. The house’s upper-floor libraries were converted into offices for esteemed dual-college faculty members, and those faculty members meet here with students on academic matters during the day. In the evenings, the manor is the site of dinner parties and elegant cocktail hours for those faculty members, their most promising students, and visiting alumni.
- Since no one permanently lives in Captain Dapplewing’s Manor, the building is closed and locked from 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. Because it holds many valuable antiques and volumes of sensitive research, security measures are in place in the manor, as described below.
- Once the characters are ready to go, allow them to approach the house in any way they see fit. The easiest way to access the manor is through its locked front doors (area C1), although characters could easily try to access the manor via one of the decks at the back (areas C10 and C11).
- **Captain Dapplewing’s Manor Features**. The manor has the following features:
	- **Ceilings**. The ceilings throughout the manor are 20 feet high.
	- **Doors**. The manor’s outside doors (in areas C1, C10, and C11) are locked. A character can pick a lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools. Anyone can easily break the glass doors, but doing so summons security (see below). The inside doors are unlocked unless otherwise noted.
	- **Lighting**. By night, the interior of the manor is in darkness.
	- **Magic Stairs**. Stairs and steps in the manor are enchanted to move and reshape themselves for full accessibility.
	- **Transport Circles**. A runic circle is painted on the floor near each staircase in the manor, as well as at the top and bottom of the steps leading inside the building in area C1. These circles are permanent, customized teleportation circles. Anyone can move onto a circle and mentally focus on the floor to which they wish to travel. (The circle leading to the attic is in the manor’s hidden staircase, which must be found first.) When a character is teleported from a circle near a staircase, they arrive on the destination floor on the runic circle nearest the corresponding staircase. The circle outside the main entrance automatically transports characters directly in front of the manor’s front doors.
	- **Security**. If an outside door is smashed or the characters engage in noticeable vandalism, a Silverquill professor of radiance and a Quandrix professor of substance arrive at the manor in 1d4 rounds. Both are serving as campus security for the night and deal with the characters as noted below.
- If the characters are on their best behavior, avoiding combat and trying not to break anything, they should be able to have fun in this event without worrying about lasting damage to the manor. All the Constructs here (including the Earl and the dragon heads plaque) have a self-restoring quality that allows them to repair damage taken during a skirmish. But if characters egregiously smash open doors or engage in property damage, impose repercussions even if their mission to retrieve Sassy Sally Jane is successful.

> [!warning] The Jig is Up!
> If the characters alert security to their unauthorized presence at the manor, they are caught when the professors arrive. The professors force the characters to return to their dormitories, but the characters are free to undertake this mission another night. If they’re caught more than once, the characters must attend special behavioral classes that prevent them from participating in any Extracurriculars or Jobs for the rest of the academic year. The characters immediately lose any benefits from these activities.

 - [ ]  **C1. Veranda**
>A mahogany roof covers this porch, which is bounded by a low rail and outfitted with fine wicker furniture. Above the double door hangs a sign done in fine calligraphy: “Captain Dapplewing’s Manor.”

- A search of the veranda and a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check turns up a key to the front door stashed inside the potted plant. A faculty member who often loses their keys placed this spare here.

 - [ ]  **C2. Foyer**
>Coat racks carved to resemble statues of individuals line the entryway into the manor beyond. The coat racks flanking the doors depict two dwarves wearing high-collared jackets. The other coat racks on the left depict a one-tusked loxodon, a monocle-wearing orc, and a gnome with a skunk for a hairpiece. The statues on the right depict a drow wearing a scarf, a burly human in a tuxedo, and a high elf in a cowl.

- With successful DC 15 Intelligence (History) check, a character recalls that the individuals depicted were Captain Dapplewing’s favorite military compatriots, all great friends of Strixhaven.
- A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices that the boxy dwarf “coat racks” are moving slightly. Both are designed to serve as attendants and use the duodrone stat block. Without professors to control them, the coat racks attack the characters either when they first notice the coat racks moving or as they move into area C3.

`encounter: 2: Duodrone`

 - [ ]  **C3. Grand Hall**
>A set of magically shifting steps connects the foyer to this spacious, open area. Beautiful, thick carpet adorns the floor, topped by a crimson runner that leads into the dining hall beyond. From the corner of your eye, you see a formally attired figure.

- Normally a place where people socialize while they wait for dinner, this space is occupied at night by a clockwork butler nicknamed the Earl, which paces back and forth. The Earl wears a silver waistcoat, a black jacket with tails, and a cravat, and it uses the Strixhaven campus guide stat block. Without anyone to correct it, the butler believes the characters are burglars. It shouts a warning in Common — “The Earl commands you to leave!” — before attacking.

`encounter: 1: Strixhaven Campus Guide`

 - [ ]  **C4. Dining Hall**
>The centerpiece of this hall is a beautifully decorated dining table, its china and silver arranged just so. Along the wall to the west is an upright piano flanked by cushioned benches. To the east stands a fireplace, its embers still glowing.

- The Earl in area C3 sets the table every night before the manor is closed and locked. A character who searches under the table and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a small velvet coin purse someone dropped. Inside is 15 gp.
- The piano is functional and magical. If a character tries to play it, the piano plays an entire jaunty, military-style march. This alerts the Earl in area C3 to the presence of intruders, if the characters have not already encountered the clockwork butler.

**Treasure**. The fireplace has a number of implements for tending the fire set to one side of it. A character who examines these implements and succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check discovers a poker with a silvered end that can be easily removed and used as a silvered dagger.

 - [ ]  **C5. Portrait Salon**
>This salon features a comfortable sitting area and rows of portraits hung on the walls.

- A character who examines the paintings recognizes that they feature several historical Strixhaven professors, as well as the friends of the university depicted in the coat racks in area C2.

 - [ ]  **C6. Drawing Room**
>This cozy drawing room holds bookcases as well as a number of easels folded and tucked in beside them. In the northeast corner, an easel holds a watercolor painting of a stylized, chicken-like reptilian creature lounging in a baroque style.

- The painting was created using magic by a talented student as a parlor trick. If a character touches the painting, the creature in the painting disappears and a cockatrice appears beside the character. The confused creature attacks, then winks out of existence when defeated.

`encounter: 1: Cockatrice`

 - [ ]  **C7. Hall of Beauty**
This hall is lined with four exquisitely carved marble busts set on gilded pedestals. The abstract busts all represent beautiful androgynous figures bedecked with jewelry carved into its stone—and with a single, twelve-foot-long fur stole wrapped around the shoulders of all four statues.

A student’s magic trick, the stoles in both these areas each animate into a fire snake if any character moves within 5 feet of the busts. The fire snakes wink out of existence when defeated.






#### Week 13: Magical Physiologies Exam: Otyughs

 - [ ] -

- 

 - [ ] -

- 

#### Week 15: The Rose Stage

 - [ ] -

- 

 - [ ] -

- 

#### Week 17: Secrets in Sedgemoor

 - [ ] -

- 

 - [ ] -

- 

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables



### References

* Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 3
