 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* In this adventure, the characters return to Strixhaven University as second-year students. As the year gets underway, the characters’ peers urge them to form a team and compete in a high-profile game of Mage Tower. They’ll investigate the odd behavior of the magical creatures at the game’s center while they prepare for the big game. And throughout the year, nefarious forces strew havoc across the campus — right up to the characters’ fateful game day at Strixhaven Stadium. Will the characters unveil and thwart the threats before something terrible befalls the event?

### Characters and Locations

* 

* 

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 1: Welcome Back!

 - [ ]  **College Selection**

- Before this adventure begins, the characters must choose one of Strixhaven’s five colleges to join: Silverquill, Prismari, Witherbloom, Lorehold, or Quandrix. This choice can happen “off screen” or as part of the preparation for this adventure.
- Have an interesting scene with each of the players at their selected college. Give them something interesting such as a feat or magic item (possibly the Primer items), in addition to their clothing. Have a little ceremony or dinner or something, and make each unique to the chosen college.

 - [ ]  **Course Selection**

- Before the adventure, have the players choose at least three courses their characters are taking this year, either by coming up with the courses or by rolling on the Second-Year Courses table. Inform them that the characters are also enrolled in a required course, Scrivening and Symbology.

| d10 | Course                        | Offered By  |
|-----|-------------------------------|-------------|
| 1   | Applied Computational Magic   | Quandrix    |
| 2   | Basic Arcane Artifacts        | Lorehold    |
| 3   | Electro-choreography          | Prismari    |
| 4   | Historical Figures in Magic   | Lorehold    |
| 5   | Introduction to Reanimation   | Witherbloom |
| 6   | Life Auras and Necrosis       | Witherbloom |
| 7   | Linguistics in Spellcasting   | Silverquill |
| 8   | Pyromancy and the Arts        | Prismari    |
| 9   | Quantitative Arcano-physics   | Quandrix    |
| 10  | Verbal Components and the Law | Silverquill |

 - [ ]  **Back in Session**

- Once the characters have chosen their colleges and cemented their other second-year decisions, it’s time to kick off this adventure.
- The academic year has barely dawned when the characters wrap up a day of their new courses and head toward Bow’s End Tavern on the central campus for some socializing.
- In this scene, the characters learn about the Battle of Strixhaven, a Mage Tower game. Another student is part of this scene — ideally a student the characters have interacted with, or another student. When you’re ready to begin, read or paraphrase the following, altering the text to incorporate the student’s name or other details:
>Your peers’ shouts of camaraderie punctuate the air as you finish your first second-year classes for the day. Nearby you see Bow’s End Tavern, where you’ll find friends waiting.

- A student runs up to the characters, shouting and waving a flyer. Pausing to catch their breath, the student grins and stuffs the flyer in a character’s hand. The student exclaims:
>“It’s happening — the Mage Tower game! The professors invited the student body to field two Mage Tower teams for a game at the end of the year. It’s the Battle of Strixhaven, and the winners and their supporters get bragging rights for life! All of us think you’d make the best team. You’d win for sure!
>“If you’re in, you can register your team with Professor Sharpbeak. Come on — we’ll talk you into it over Curtie’s caster’s stew!”

- Show the players the Battle of Strixhaven flyer. As Strixhaven students, the characters are familiar with the game Mage Tower.
- **The Game of Mage Tower**. Mage Tower is one of Strixhaven’s most common student games. The Battle of Strixhaven is an intramural championship held every three years in Strixhaven Stadium for bragging rights among the student body. For more about this event, see the “Battle of Strixhaven” section. Here are the rules of Mage Tower:
	- Each of the two teams has an equal number of students, usually not exceeding five.
	- Each team is represented by a small mascot creature that reflects one of Strixhaven’s colleges.
	- When the game begins, the two mascots are placed on high towers at opposite ends of the field of play.
	- Each team tries to steal the opposing mascot and transport it back to the tower at their end of the field. Doing so scores one point.
	- The game occurs in three phases of 20 minutes each.
	- The team that scores the most points by the end of the third phase wins the game.
	- Anything that could cause damage to a participant, mascot, or spectator or that would damage the field of play in any way is prohibited. Breaking this rule results in expulsion from the game.
	- Questionable use of magic can be called as a foul by the game’s referee. A faculty member fills that post during official games.
	- Participants who accumulate three fouls are ejected from the game. Teams may not replace participants who foul out.

 - [ ]  **Forming a Team**

- Once the characters decide to form one of the two Mage Tower teams for the Battle of Strixhaven, they must register the team with Professor Mavinda Sharpbeak. Their team includes all the characters; the characters might recruit student NPCs to join their team, although filling their roster up to five participants isn’t required. The opposing team has an equal number of participants. Multiple teams may register for the tournament; the faculty choose two to compete in the Battle of Strixhaven. The characters’ team is chosen to compete along with a team that consists of their Rivals and other NPCs.
- More information about the Battle of Strixhaven and the opposing team is provided later in the next adventure. The Mage Tower game isn’t until the end of the academic year, but preparing for it plays a key role in this adventure.

If you wish, roleplay the scene in which the characters register their team with Professor Sharpbeak. The owlin counselor can be found in the Biblioplex near the Hall of Oracles. There, she’s helping direct new first-year students to vital places on campus. For a description and map of the Biblioplex (map 3.1), see chapter 3.

If characters don’t immediately leap at the chance to form a Mage Tower team for the Battle of Strixhaven, emphasize that every peer they speak with wants to see them participate. In addition to social rewards, the characters learn that participating in the Battle of Strixhaven earns them a permanent commendation on their student record, as well as a monetary prize of half of their tuition for this academic year waived. Effectively, this means each character receives 400 gp if their team wins.

Still could do the little mascot adventure, but replace the mascots with baby animals/monstrosities/aberrations and move it to a new location that's not used elsewhere (possibly Prismari?).

#### Week 4: Party at the Rose Stage


#### Week 7: Scrivening and Symbology Exam: Glyph of Warding


#### Week 10: Practice Makes Perfect


#### Week 13: Scrivening and Symbology Exam: Symbol Glyphs


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- 

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 5
