 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* In this adventure, the characters return to Strixhaven University as second-year students. As the year gets underway, the characters’ peers urge them to form a team and compete in a high-profile game of Mage Tower. They’ll investigate the odd behavior of the magical creatures at the game’s center while they prepare for the big game. And throughout the year, nefarious forces strew havoc across the campus — right up to the characters’ fateful game day at Strixhaven Stadium. Will the characters unveil and thwart the threats before something terrible befalls the event?

### Characters and Locations

* 

* 

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 16: Getting Some Air

 - [ ] -

#### Week 18: Scrivening and Symbology Exam: Augury

 - [ ] -

#### Week 20: Scriptoria Collections

 - [ ] -

#### Week 22: Tell Us In Song!


 - [ ] -
#### Week 24: Scrivening and Symbology Practicum

Some sort of rune puzzle filled location, where they're being hunted by the mage hunters while they try to complete the puzzles and find a treasure?

 - [ ] -

#### Week 26: Battle of Strixhaven

 - [ ] -

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- Final encounter is mage hunters? (since Murgaxor should be dead at this point). Make it so they can't be damaged by spells, so they have to use spells in different ways.

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 5
