 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* In these adventures, the characters are invited to the Magister’s Masquerade, one of the most elaborate annual events on campus. Before the big dance, though, they’ll clash with rivals, pick the perfect masquerade outfit, and help prepare for one of the most glamorous nights of their lives. During this time, an influential faculty member begins to act strangely, and a menacing shadow falls over all of Strixhaven.
* Many of the strange events that occur in these adventures are a result of Dean Tullus being manipulated by a mysterious orb. This device, an [[Oriq Orb]], remains in the dean’s possession throughout the adventure and allows her to spread the curse that afflicts Strixhaven’s students. The adventure tells you when cursed students behave strangely during relevant events, so don’t worry about tracking which Strixhaven students are cursed.

### Characters and Locations

* **Augusta Tullus** (LN female human Lorehold professor of order).

* 

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 1: Return and Reception

 - [ ]  **Student Schedules**

- Before starting this adventure, have the players choose at least three courses their characters are taking this year, either by coming up with the courses themselves or by rolling on the Third-Year Courses table. Inform them that the characters are also enrolled in a required course, Advanced Arcane History.

| d10 | Course                               | Offered By  |
|-----|--------------------------------------|-------------|
| 1   | Advanced Abstraction                 | Quandrix    |
| 2   | Aquatic Cryptozoology                | Witherbloom |
| 3   | Ethics in Enchantment                | Silverquill |
| 4   | Extradimensional Architecture        | Quandrix    |
| 5   | History of Magic Rings               | Lorehold    |
| 6   | Introductory Aesthemancy             | Prismari    |
| 7   | Overview of Magical Notation         | Silverquill |
| 8   | Advanced Arcano-mycology             | Witherbloom |
| 9   | Principles of Warsinging             | Lorehold    |
| 10  | Turning Inner Fire into Outer Flames | Prismari    |

 - [ ]  **Cordially Invited**

- Once the characters have decided how they’ve spent their time away from school and chosen their courses for the year, read the following text:
>Classes haven’t even started at Strixhaven yet, but excitement and magic are already in the air on campus. Amid the bustle of students reuniting after their time away and preparing for the new year, you find your new lodgings. Inside the small, clean room is a bed, a closet, and a desk, and on the desktop is a thick piece of vellum, carefully rolled, sealed, and bearing your name. Nestled next to it is a silver pin shaped like the Strixhaven star, the symbol of the university.

- Characters who examine the sealed message on their desk find it easy to open. Show players the Masquerade Invitation as characters open the letter.
- The Magister’s Masquerade is an elaborate dress ball and a major campus event. All third-year students are invited and expected to attend. Invitees may invite fourth-year companions to the event, but first- and second-year students aren’t permitted.
- A note provided along with the invitation explains the expectations for the event and the accompanying pin:
	- The Magister’s Masquerade dress code requires attendees to come in formal costumes with masks. Costumes can take a wide variety of forms, but they can’t suggest any specific college affiliation. Otherwise, style, creativity, and magical flair are encouraged.
	- The pin is a magic item called a masque charm. Its magic can help students dress for the Magister’s Masquerade.
	- Masque charms are only for use during the Magister’s Masquerade. Students caught wearing a masque charm or using its magic outside the event are withdrawn from any Extracurriculars for the rest of the academic year.
	- All third-year students must assist the event’s organizing committee.
	- Students will learn more about the masquerade and the organizing committee tonight at a reception at Bow’s End Tavern.
- Characters who succeed on a DC 14 Intelligence (History) check know more about the background of the Magister’s Masquerade, as described in the “Masquerade History” section.

> [!NOTE] Masquerade History
> The founding masters of Strixhaven University sought ways to mitigate the clashes common among students of different magical colleges. Magister Kollema of Lorehold College recognized that shared experiences and culture created more unity than merely attending the same classes. In light of this, he proposed the first Magister’s Masquerade, which would rely on students from all five colleges to prepare every aspect of the event and would require students to attend in costume, divesting themselves of any college loyalty. The first event was a grand success, and since then the Magister’s Masquerade has been an annual tradition at Strixhaven. It’s a night of magic and mystery that highlights what students can accomplish together and allows them to see one another in a different light.

 - [ ]  **Reception at Bow’s End**

- The night the characters return to Strixhaven, there’s a welcoming reception at Bow’s End Tavern. This event gives students the opportunity to socialize with friends and learn more about the Magister’s Masquerade.
- After the characters have settled into their lodgings, they find their classmates drifting toward Bow’s End Tavern for the reception, including some of the characters’ Friends, Beloveds, or Rivals. When the characters arrive at Bow’s End, read or paraphrase the following text:
>A crowd of boisterous third-year students fills Bow’s End Tavern, abuzz with conversations about the Magister’s Masquerade and dream outfits for the event. Among the crowds of chatting friends and mingling students are decorated tables; one is surrounded by the masquerade’s student organizers, and the others are covered in outlandish snacks. A wave of shouts rises from the back of the tavern, where high-energy games are underway.

- Besides students, several faculty members also attend the reception. Among them is one of Lorehold College’s deans, Augusta Tullus. Characters recognize her as the professor of their Advanced Arcane History course. If approached, the dean proves pleasant and professional. Her attendance at the reception is noteworthy, but its relevance won’t be clear until later in the adventure.
- At the reception, the characters can catch up with other students and enjoy magical snacks. The event concludes with a student getting ill (see “One Too Many?”) — foreshadowing events later in this adventure — and disgruntled students demanding the characters face them in a magical contest (see “The Challenge”). This challenge works best if it comes from a character’s Rival.

- **Activities**. Students the characters interact with during the reception might want to participate in any of the activities on the Reception Activities table. Roll an activity or choose one from this table to determine the characters’ interactions.

| d6  | Activity                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1   | **Catching Up**. The student wants to talk about their recent break, which they spent reading everything by a specific author, mastering an esoteric game, or traveling to an exciting location. |
| 2   | **Join the Committee**. The student has big ideas and wants to join the masquerade organizing committee with the character.                                                                      |
| 3   | **Bar Games**. The student asks the character to play a friendly bar game, such as darts or cards. This is more an opportunity to chat than about winning.                                       |
| 4   | **Eating Everything**. The student wants to try every food available at the event (see “Snack Sampling”). They ask the character to join them.                                                   |
| 5   | **Perfect Opportunity**. The student has a crush on or rivalry with another student. They ask the character for help talking to or pranking this student.                                        |
| 6   | **Drama**. The student is anxious about something that happened during their break or about the impending academic year (perhaps the masquerade).                                                |
- **Rumors**. Additionally, in the course of the reception, characters might hear any of the gossip on the Third-Year Rumor Mill table. Not all the rumors are true, as noted in the table, but some foreshadow events later in this adventure.

| d6  | Rumor                                                                                                | Accuracy                    |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| 1   | Some professors seek to change Mage Tower for the sake of student safety. Many students oppose this. | False                       |
| 2   | There’s a ailment going around campus. Several students say they haven’t been feeling well.          | True (Murgaxor’s influence) |
| 3   | Rumor has it that the Magister’s Masquerade is actually a secret test.                               | False                       |
| 4   | People are still on edge after mage hunters crept onto campus last year.                             | True                        |
| 5   | Supposedly one of the Founder Dragons will be a surprise guest of honor at the masquerade.           | False                       |
| 6   | Dean Tullus wants this year’s masquerade to focus on Strixhaven history—boring to many students.     | True                        |
- **Masquerade Committee**. A student committee organizes the Magister’s Masquerade, and its leaders use the reception to get other students excited about the event. Characters who approach the committee table learn that, throughout the academic year, third-year students will periodically be assigned tasks to help prepare for the masquerade. The adventure assumes that committee leaders are in charge of much of the masquerade’s orchestration, but if your players are excited about contributing to the event’s decor, menu, entertainment, and so on, you can incorporate their suggestions into the descriptions of the preparation tasks and the masquerade itself.

- **Snack Sampling**. Characters who investigate any of the tavern tables laden with snacks find an array of magic-infused dishes. Roll or choose an option from Bow’s End Snacks table to see what’s available at any given table. All these dishes include magical ingredients meant to give the dishes a little extra flair. The first time a creature samples any of these dishes, it must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma (Deception) check to avoid making an alarmed face, coughing loudly, or having another potentially embarrassing reaction.

| d6  | Snack                                                                                              |
| --- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Eel rolls with sticky rice, jalapeno-infusedhoney-ginger sauce, and wriggling eels                 |
| 2   | Exploding cheese puffs that pop in the mouth with cheesy flavor and illusory fireworks             |
| 3   | Fire beetle paste, a scorchingly spicy dip limned in illusory flames, served with toasted crackers |
| 4   | Midnight mushroom caps with blinking, phosphorescent spots, stuffed with crumbled cheese           |
| 5   | Pickled black lotus root that turns the tongue of anyone who eats it purple                        |
| 6   | Chilled vegetable rolls in glass-leaf wrappers that feel like they shatter when bitten             |




#### Week 4: Fate at Furygale


#### Week 7: Advanced Arcane History Exam: Relics


#### Week 10: The Masquerade’s Theme


#### Week 11: Party Preparations


#### Week 13: Advanced Arcane History Exam: Devices (Midterm)


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- At the conclusion of this adventure, during midterm break, the players should level up to 7th level.

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 6
