 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* In these adventures, the characters are invited to the Magister’s Masquerade, one of the most elaborate annual events on campus. Before the big dance, though, they’ll clash with rivals, pick the perfect masquerade outfit, and help prepare for one of the most glamorous nights of their lives. During this time, an influential faculty member begins to act strangely, and a menacing shadow falls over all of Strixhaven.
* Many of the strange events that occur in these adventures are a result of Dean Tullus being manipulated by a mysterious orb. This device, an [[Oriq Orb]], remains in the dean’s possession throughout the adventure and allows her to spread the curse that afflicts Strixhaven’s students. The adventure tells you when cursed students behave strangely during relevant events, so don’t worry about tracking which Strixhaven students are cursed.

### Characters and Locations

* **Augusta Tullus** (LN female human Lorehold professor of order). 
* **Nivall** (CG non-binary djinni). 
* **Chef Curtie Axechucker** (CN dwarf commoner).

* **The Rose Stage**
* **Kollema Hall**

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 16: Fancying Up Footwork

- In preparation for the Magister’s Masquerade, the Strixhaven faculty sponsors a day of free, professional dance lessons for third-year students. Dance lessons are offered after returning from midterm break, and are held on the Rose Stage on Silverquill College. Numerous students attend the dance classes, including several of the characters’ Friends, Beloveds, and Rivals, as well as other random students as needed.
- The day of the dance classes, when the characters show up at the Rose Stage, read or paraphrase the following text:
>The hum of conversation, awkward laughter, and the sound of shuffling feet meet you as you approach the Rose Stage on Silverquill’s campus. Upon the polished stage mill dozens of students, waiting nervously or trying out their best approximations of dance moves.

- Several dozen students are already present at the Rose Stage, waiting for the dance lessons to begin. As soon as the characters arrive, a familiar student approaches one of them and points out a large, graceful, blue-skinned individual amid the crowd. “I think that’s Nivall!” the student says, urging the characters to follow. “They’re the greatest dancer ever to graduate from Strixhaven. Come on — I bet they’ll teach us amazing moves!”
- Dance instructor Nivall is a graceful individual who moves as naturally as a cloud. A recent Strixhaven graduate, Nivall leads the students through 4 hours of dance lessons. First, though, Nivall asks everyone to choose their first dance partner or allow Nivall to pair them off.

 - [ ]  **Dance with Me?**

- Nivall walks students through a dance routine, then asks dancers to repeat it on their own. After each dance, Nivall encourages students to switch partners. During the dance lesson, at least one student each character dances with stands out. Roll on the Dance Partner Quirks table below to determine how.

| d6  | The Character’s Partner…                                                     |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | Is already a fantastic dancer.                                               |
| 2   | Treats a dance like a competitive, full-contact sport.                       |
| 3   | Is shy or embarrassed, giggling uncontrollably and never making eye contact. |
| 4   | Is fantastically clumsy or gets dizzy easily.                                |
| 5   | Tries to mask their discomfort by complaining about how stupid this all is.  |
| 6   | Talks tirelessly about their incredible outfit for the masquerade.           |
#### Week 19: Advanced Arcane History Exam: Unearthed Arcana

- The characters’ final Exam in Advanced Arcane History tests students’ knowledge of theories about lost magical relics and devices.

 - [ ]  **Studying Phase**

- The day before the Exam, the characters can study the course material. A character can use any ability check and skill during the Studying phase.
- Once you’ve asked each player how their character is approaching the Studying phase, resolve that phase by having each character who studies make a DC 17 ability check. Make sure players keep track of their characters’ rerolls and apply them during the Testing phase.

 - [ ]  **Testing Phase**

- Once again, Dean Tullus doesn’t appear to administer this Exam, but her assistants are prepared and run the Exam smoothly. On the day of the Exam, each character makes two ability checks related to parts of the test:
	- **Lost Magic Relics**. Identifying famous missing magical relics requires a successful DC 19 Intelligence (Arcana) or Intelligence (History) check.
	- **Discovery Hypotheses**. Writing short essays theorizing what magic items scholars have yet to discover requires a successful DC 19 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
- Have each player note their character’s Exam results — how many Student Dice they gained and what skills they used during the test — on their copies of the tracking sheet.
- **Cheating**. Dean Tullus’s teaching assistants aren’t as alert for cheaters as true Strixhaven professors; the DCs of the two checks is only 14.

#### Week 22: Preparing the Hall

- After the dance lessons, characters have time to focus on classes or other activities, but the date of the Magister’s Masquerade is getting close. A few weeks before the ball, each character receives a request from the masquerade organizing committee. They’re asked to collaborate with other students to help prepare Kollema Hall for the masquerade. Unknown to the characters, though, Murgaxor uses this gathering to test his curse on a larger, more dangerous scale.
- The following sections detail the parts of Kollema Hall where students set up for the Magister’s Masquerade, along with several incidents that plague their work.
- **Kollema Hall Features**. Kollema Hall is a historic structure dedicated to the respected Strixhaven professor, Magister Kollema — an innovator in the magical study of history. After his death, the university renamed this hall in his honor and built an enormous statue of him at its center. Details about the hall are summarized here:
	- **Ceilings**. The center of the hall rises 200 feet above the floor to a domed ceiling. The ceiling above each balcony is 20 feet high.
	- **Doors**. At night, all exterior doors to the hall are locked and sealed with arcane lock spells. Only Lorehold College faculty members, including Dean Tullus, know the password to bypass these spells. Opening a lock requires thieves’ tools and a successful DC 25 Dexterity check (DC 35 while the arcane lock spell is active).
	- **Illumination**. Light from the domed skylight and continual flame spells cast on hanging lanterns provide bright illumination throughout the hall.
	- **Magic Steps**. All steps, including the hall’s grand staircase, shift up or down like escalators, or flatten out completely before raising or lowering like lifts to accommodate larger creatures and mobility devices, depending on users’ needs.
	- **Transport Glyphs**. Runic glyphs (marked as starbursts on map 5.2) are etched on the floor near the hall’s main staircase. Any creature that stands on a glyph and says “up” or “down” is teleported to the transport glyph one floor higher or lower in the hall (depending on the direction spoken), along with anything the creature is wearing or carrying. If the destination glyph is occupied or the command doesn’t make sense (such as saying “down” while on the hall’s lowest floor), the transport glyph doesn’t function.

 - [ ]  **K1. Serenity Quadrants**

- Study areas under the hall’s tiered balconies hold an impressive collection of history books. Sorting the book collection day and night are 1d4 cogwork archivists (see chapter 7).

 - [ ]  **K2. Wise Kollema**

- The towering statue of Kollema holds an open book in one hand and a staff in the other and is visible from each of the hall’s floors.

 - [ ]  **K3. Demonstration Stage**

- This stage rises 5 feet to be flush with the base of Kollema’s statue. Here, Lorehold professors perform demonstrations of their college’s more physically demanding subjects, such as conjuring the spirits of past scholars and historians. On any given weekday, there is a 50 percent chance that one Lorehold professor of chaos and twelve Lorehold pledgemages (see chapter 7 for both) are taking part in a class here.

 - [ ]  **K4. Second-Floor Study**

- The collection of books upon the second floor focuses on historical accounts of mage-explorers and archaeomancers. Attending this collection day and night are 1d4 cogwork archivists (see chapter 7).

 - [ ]  **K5. Infirmary Intake**

- This infirmary is staffed by Zertha DeSantos (lawful good human Lorehold professor of order; see chapter 7). Colorful, framed art bears the messages “Keep eating habits healthy!” and “Never practice dangerous magic without a buddy!”

 - [ ]  **K6. Infirmary Hall**

- This featureless hall connects the infirmary and the sickroom.

 - [ ]  **K7. Sickroom**

- The six stiff-sheeted beds in this rarely used sickroom provide places for ill or injured students to rest.

 - [ ]  **Masquerade Preparations**

- The following tasks must be completed to transform Kollema Hall:
	- Remove all the tables from the first floor.
	- Unpack the supplies delivered from the Biblioplex.
	- Hang banners from the second floor.
	- Hang colorful lanterns.
	- Ready the stage for magic that will allow dancers to levitate.
	- Prepare magical decorations for later deployment.
	- Set up mundane decorations.
- The characters are sent to complete these tasks along with twenty other students. These students include individuals the characters know and classmates they’re less familiar with. Even for this number of helpers, the work takes at least 8 hours to complete — longer if students get distracted.
- The work of preparing the hall might be plagued by accidents. Student recklessness isn’t entirely to blame for these dangers — unknown to the characters, some more sinister force is at work. For every two hours the characters spend working in Kollema Hall, roll on the Kollema Hall Accidents table to determine whether an event occurs, then run the corresponding event, which is described below the table. Events can occur more than once. At the end of this time, continue with the “Waking Nightmares” section.

| d10  | Kollema Hall Accident Event |
| ---- | --------------------------- |
| 1–4  | No Event                    |
| 5    | Archivist Attack            |
| 6    | Firebreak                   |
| 7    | Get Me Down                 |
| 8    | Look Out                    |
| 9–10 | Sick Leave                  |
 - [ ]  **Archivist Attack**

- In response to a dropped table or minor damage to the library shelves, two cogwork archivists move to attack the offending students. It’s unclear why the archivists react so aggressively.

 - [ ]  **Firebreak**

- On the night of the masquerade, the hall will be lit with dozens of magical floating lights that emanate from magical firework-like devices that will be set off soon after the event begins. These tube-like devices are among the decorations being set up during the day’s preparations. Choose a character and have them make a DC 16 Intelligence (Investigation) check. On a successful check, they notice that one of the devices is faulty. On a failed check, the character doesn’t spot anything amiss.
- If the character fails to notice the damaged device, or notices the problem but elects to do nothing about it, a misfire occurs in the “Welcoming Announcement” section later in this adventure.

 - [ ]  **Get Me Down**

- The demonstration stage (area K3) has been enchanted with magic that will allow dancers to fly above it on the night of the masquerade. However, this magic has somehow activated early, causing a student the characters know to levitate unexpectedly, stranding them 50 feet in the air, out of reach of any solid objects. The student can’t move from their position while out of reach, but if they come in contact with an anchored object, they can move along it as if climbing. The student levitates for 5 minutes before the magic ends and they fall.

 - [ ]  **Look Out**

- Someone shouts a warning as a box of heavy decorations drops from a balcony several floors up. A random character must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity saving throw or take 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage.
- If no character is in a place where something could fall on them, choose a character and let them notice the box about to fall on a student on the first floor. The character has an instant to try to mitigate the danger — perhaps by casting a spell or using a class feature. If they can’t, the box hits the student and deals damage as described above.

 - [ ]  **Sick Leave**

- During the hall’s preparation, a student complains of having a headache that’s suddenly gotten worse, and they head to the third-floor infirmary. Although the characters have no way of knowing it, this student is cursed by the Oriq Orb. When this happens, increase the number of sick students in the “Waking Nightmares” section by one. If a character escorts the student to the infirmary, Professor DeSantos doesn’t find anything wrong with the student and encourages them to lie down in the sickroom (area K7) until they feel better.

 - [ ]  **Waking Nightmares**

- As the work of preparing Kollema Hall winds down, six students complain about headaches and go to the infirmary. All these students are feeling the effects of the curse caused by the Oriq Orb. These students should be a mix of students the characters know and don’t know.
- If a character goes to the infirmary with the sick students, Professor DeSantos is concerned by the sudden influx of patients but can’t find anything wrong with them. She insists they rest in the sickroom until they feel better.
- Ten minutes later, these six students — along with any others who came to the infirmary during the “Sick Leave” event — are back on their feet, though something is clearly wrong. The afflicted students are all suffering from the Visions of Terror effect of the Oriq Orb. They’re delirious and hallucinating, shouting things like “No! Stop!” and “Keep away!” Reacting violently to whatever they’re seeing, they attack anyone near them as they try to escape Kollema Hall; use one or more of the college apprentice stat blocks to represent them.
- Any characters in the infirmary are among the first people the delirious students turn against. Characters on the hall’s first and second floors who succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check hear shouting and breaking glass on the third floor. Soon after, the panicking students rush onto the second floor and seek to escape, attacking anyone who comes close, while yelling things like “Stay back, monster!” and “Help, they’re trying to kill me!” The resulting scene descends into chaos as the other students either try to help or scatter in terror.

- **Ending the Panic**. A character can use an action to try to calm a delirious student, doing so with a successful DC 14 Charisma (Persuasion) check. A character who is a Friend or Beloved of the delirious student has advantage on the check. If the check fails, the student continues to panic. If the check succeeds, the student becomes docile and returns to normal after 10 minutes; the same thing happens if the student is incapacitated. Sick students who escape from Kollema Hall rampage across campus for 10 minutes before being taken into custody by university staff.
- After this incident, most of the afflicted students are too scared to attend the Magister’s Masquerade.

 - [ ]  **Investigating the Panic**

- A character who investigates what led to the students’ mysterious behavior can make a DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check. A successful check reveals that the sick students all recently visited Bow’s End Tavern—they met for breakfast before the day’s work started. If the characters miss this clue, a student whom a character is acquainted with shares this observation a day later.
- Investigating Bow’s End. A character who visits Bow’s End Tavern can ask around about the students. None of the staff remembers anything remarkable, but one of the tavern’s chefs, Curtie Axechucker, was working when the students originally came in. She’s also there when the characters come to investigate.

Regardless of the characters’ line of questioning, the anxious Chef Curtie (chaotic neutral dwarf commoner) jumps to the conclusion that her food might have sickened the students. A character must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check to get useful information out of Curtie, as she works herself into a flustered state. For each successful check, Curtie offers one of the following pieces of information:

She was the only chef on duty when the students in question came in.
The morning meal was nothing remarkable, with waffles drizzled in Sedgemoor mushroom syrup being popular.
Student pranksters have tried to slip psychoactive ingredients into meals in years past.
Dean Tullus was at the tavern and spoke with the students. The dean seemed uncharacteristically friendly, chatting and shaking hands as they parted.
Curtie couldn’t hear what the dean said to the students and doesn’t remember anything useful beyond this. She begs the characters not to spread rumors about the tavern until it’s clear what happened.

Talking to the Dean
If the characters wish to ask Dean Tullus about why she was at Bow’s End Tavern, meeting with her immediately proves impossible, as the professor is busy with her classes and personal research. However, a teaching assistant can make an appointment for the characters to talk to the dean during her office hours three days after the chaos at Kollema Hall. This meeting takes place in Tullus’s office in the Deans’ Wing of Archaeo Memorial Hall.

Should the characters meet with Dean Tullus, they find her polite but cold. She admits she was at the tavern, but only to ensure preparations for the Magister’s Masquerade were on track. She remembers seeing some of her students at the tavern but doesn’t remember what they spoke about. She claims to be cordial with all her students. Characters who succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom (Insight) check suspect Tullus isn’t being entirely truthful, but aren’t sure what about. Those who succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check also notice the green orb the dean showcased during class occupying a prominent space behind her desk.

If the characters persist in their questioning, Dean Tullus brushes off any implication of impropriety and mentions that the Strixhaven administration is making its own investigation into the events at Kollema Hall—one that will scrutinize everyone who was there. She ends the meeting by telling the characters to focus on studying for their upcoming exams.


#### Week 24: Advanced Arcane History Practicum

- Fang Crater?

#### Week 26: A Starlit Night

 - [ ] -

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- At the conclusion of this adventure, finishing their third year, the players should level up to 8th level.
- Definitely have the bad guy(s) be the Oriq in their masks who have infiltrated the masquerade. Unmasking and a fight!

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 6
