 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* In these adventures, the characters are invited to the Magister’s Masquerade, one of the most elaborate annual events on campus. Before the big dance, though, they’ll clash with rivals, pick the perfect masquerade outfit, and help prepare for one of the most glamorous nights of their lives. During this time, an influential faculty member begins to act strangely, and a menacing shadow falls over all of Strixhaven.
* Many of the strange events that occur in these adventures are a result of Dean Tullus being manipulated by a mysterious orb. This device, an [[Oriq Orb]], remains in the dean’s possession throughout the adventure and allows her to spread the curse that afflicts Strixhaven’s students. The adventure tells you when cursed students behave strangely during relevant events, so don’t worry about tracking which Strixhaven students are cursed.

### Characters and Locations

* **Augusta Tullus** (LN female human Lorehold professor of order).

* **The Rose Stage**
* **Kollema Hall**

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 16: Fancying Up Footwork

 - [ ] -

#### Week 19: Advanced Arcane History Exam: Unearthed Arcana


#### Week 22: Preparing the Hall


#### Week 24: Advanced Arcane History Practicum

- Fang Crater?

#### Week 26: A Starlit Night


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- At the conclusion of this adventure, finishing their third year, the players should level up to 8th level.
- Definitely have the bad guy(s) be the Oriq in their masks who have infiltrated the masquerade. Unmasking and a fight!

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 6
