 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* As the fourth and final year of the characters’ academic career at Strixhaven dawns, the university faces a crisis. In this adventure, the characters come face-to-face with an awful truth: not only does the Oriq threaten the safety of everyone on campus, but the university’s masters are powerless against the villain. It becomes clear that the characters must drop their studies and stop him at all costs.

### Characters and Locations

* **Verelda Lang** (CN dryad).

* **Firejolt Café**
* **Sedgemoor**
* **Fortress Badlands**
* Ruins of Caerdoon?

### Scenes and Situations

#### Week 1: Final Return

 - [ ]  **Student Schedules**

- Before starting this adventure, have the players choose at least three courses their characters are taking this year, either by coming up with the courses themselves or by rolling on the Fourth-Year Courses table. Inform them that the characters are also enrolled in a required course, Arcane Herbology.

| d6 | Course                           | Offered By      |
|----|----------------------------------|-----------------|
| 1  | Advanced Applied Magic           | General Studies |
| 2  | Advanced Lumimancy               | Silverquill     |
| 3  | Applied Illusory Arts            | Quandrix        |
| 4  | Arcane Macroeconomics            | Lorehold        |
| 5  | Eldritch and Arcane Performances | Prismari        |
| 6  | Extraplanar Cryptozoology        | Witherbloom     |

 - [ ]  **A Sinister Shadow**

- Once the characters have cemented their fourth-year Extracurriculars, Jobs, and Relationships decisions as needed, it’s time to kick off this adventure.
- When the characters arrive for their final year at Strixhaven, the mood is muted. Social spaces are sparsely populated, students chat in whispered tones, and the campus’s energy is tense. Read or paraphrase the following when you’re ready to begin the adventure:
>All of your hard work has come down to this — your fourth and final year as a student of magic at Strixhaven University. But as soon as you arrive on campus, it’s clear that something is very wrong.
>Instead of the usual cheerful bustle, students mill about campus nervously. Here and there, you hear frightened whispers: “I heard they're called the Oriq. I heard they want to hurt us all.”
>The rumor mill has apparently discovered the grave events that happened last academic term.

- At this point, the characters might be waiting on the faculty to discover more about Oriq plans. However, they also might want to take this investigation into their own hands.

 - [ ]  **A Brief Distraction**

- While the characters wait to learn more about the Oriq, they discover some of their fellow students engaged in a game at Firejolt Café on the central campus. One of the characters’ Friends or Rivals is part of this scene, or you may choose another random student. When you’re ready to begin the scene, read or paraphrase the following, altering the text to incorporate the name of the chosen student:
>The mood on campus might be gloomy, but as you cross the central campus, you see a few of your classmates smiling and gesturing outside Firejolt Café.
>A familiar face jogs up to you, waving and smiling in relief. “It’s so good to see you! Things have been dire around here lately, but some friends are inside about to start playing a game they call Scufflecup. Apparently, they found a box of animated teacups, and they figured out how to control the little buggers! Come on, let’s go check it out!”

 - [ ]  **Scufflecup**

- Scufflecup is a game students created after finding a box of teacups in a nearby building’s storage room. The students discovered that pouring hot tea into the cups animates them for 10 minutes and causes them to sprout little arms and legs. While animate, a cup uses the Scufflecup teacup stat block and does the bidding of whoever animated it.
- Characters who enter Firejolt Café find that the fireside lounge (area F5) has been rearranged into a play area for a game of Scufflecup. A student explains the game, which is played on the large table in the lounge’s center. The square tabletop is 5 feet on each side. The student who describes how to play is a character’s Friend, Rival, or Beloved.
- **Scufflecup Rules**. Each participant fills a teacup with hot tea and places it on the table. The participants then roll initiative. At least one Scufflecup participant is a student who isn’t a player character. On each of their turns, a participant can use a bonus action to mentally command their teacup either to attack another teacup within range or to try to shove another teacup off the table, using the rules for shoving in the Player’s Handbook. A participant loses the game if their teacup drops to 0 hit points or if their teacup falls off the table. The participant with the last cup standing wins. The winner receives a purse of donations from the crowd that totals 1,000 gp.
- **Cheering and Heckling**. A character who doesn’t want to participate in the game can contribute in one of the following ways:
	- **Cheer a Participant**. A character can encourage one of the game’s participants. That participant’s teacup gains advantage on its attack rolls.
	- **Heckle a Participant**. A character can taunt one of the game’s participants. That participant’s teacup has disadvantage on its attack rolls.

#### Week 3: Arcane Herbology Exam: Vegetation Identification

- The first Exam for Arcane Herbology takes place a few weeks after the characters’ Scufflecup game in Firejolt Café. Students must identify unlabeled groupings of different plants, lichens, and fungi. Like the course itself, this Exam is conducted in an outdoor lab located in Sedgemoor.
- Arcane Herbology covers techniques for using flora in potions, spells, and rituals. The course’s professor is Verelda Lang, an arcano-biologist whom the characters might recall from their first year of instruction.

 - [ ]  **Studying Phase**

- The day before the Exam, the characters can study the course material. A character can use any ability check and skill during the Studying phase.
- Once you’ve asked each player how their character is approaching the Studying phase, resolve that phase by having each character who studies make a DC 20 ability check. Make sure players keep track of their characters’ rerolls and apply them during the Testing phase.

 - [ ]  **Testing Phase**

- On the day of the Exam, each character makes two ability checks related to parts of the test:
	- **Flora’s Arcane Properties**. Correctly selecting the properties of samples requires a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Nature) check.
	- **Specimen Identification**. Recalling the correct names of flora with arcane uses based on sight, smell, and texture requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Survival) check.
- Have each player note their character’s Exam results — how many Student Dice they gained and what skills they used during the test — on their copies of the tracking sheet.

 - [ ]  **Moving On**

At the end of the characters’ first Exam in Professor Lang’s class, she takes them aside with a grave look on her face. She waits for the other students to leave the room before she addresses the characters:
>"I've been studying Dean Tullus's strange orb since the events of last year, and while we still don't know everything, we're learning more and more every day and believe it may be tied to a very old group who have been against Strixhaven for some time."
>“Our best faculty researchers are digging through Strixhaven’s past trying to find anything helpful, but we could use your help searching for clues. I’ve arranged for you to lead an expedition to the Fortress Badlands, where Tullus found the orb. Needless to say, there’s extra credit in it for you if you’ll help us once again.”

- Once the characters are ready to venture into the Fortress Badlands, Professor Lang provides directions but warns the characters that this location might be dangerous. Although Dean Tullus didn’t run into any problems there, it’s likely that someone led her to the orb and removed any threats that might impede his plan to manipulate her.
- Indeed, the Fortress Badlands have become a haven for acolytes of Oriq teachings and their thralls.

#### Week 6: Into the Badlands

- When the characters arrive at the Fortress Badlands, located 20 miles off campus, read or paraphrase the following:
>Jutting from the cracked earth ahead of you is a network of reddish sandstone hillocks. Three wooden guard towers flank a trail that leads through the hills. Each tower sports a knotted line of glistening rope ascending twenty feet to a broad, winged kite.

- Characters approaching from the south get a clear look at the watchtowers. The smaller, central tower has a lone, unmoving sentry. Characters who observe the towers through a spyglass or succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check note that the “sentry” appears to be a mannequin wearing a broad-brimmed sun hat. The kites and sentry are detailed in area T1.
- **Fortress Badlands Features**. Unless noted otherwise, entryways and ceilings in the caves are 10 feet high, and the caves are lit by continual flame spells cast on wall sconces.

 - [ ]  **T1. Watchtowers**

- Three of these rickety structures stand in a line running west to east, and each is 20 feet tall.
- **Sentry**. The sentry posted in the smaller, central tower is a spectator perched atop a mannequin. The spectator’s eye stalks are hidden by a sun hat. The blood mage Y’demi summoned the spectator as a guardian after she grew weary of lazy Humanoid lackeys. (For more information about Y’demi, see area U4)
- When alerted to intruders or danger, the spectator detaches from the mannequin while telepathically warning intruders to leave immediately or face annihilation. Creatures that don’t comply are attacked.
- **Kites**. The three kites are hideous amalgamations of flesh and bone that serve as aerial defenders. As a bonus action, Y’demi or the spectator can make the kites attack intruders. Damaging an inert kite also activates it, as does attacking the line of entrails that attaches the kite to its watchtower. When a kite activates, its entrails detach from the watchtower and slither up into the creature’s body. The kite then attacks until destroyed or called off by Y’demi. Each kite uses the peryton stat block.

`encounter: 3: Peryton`

 - [ ]  **T2. Collapsing Cave**
>Gentle, white light emanates from within the mouth of this cave. The mouth is fifteen feet across and ten feet high, but the cave narrows as it deepens.

- The northeastern alcove of this cave holds Murgaxor’s old collection of brined and preserved lab specimens from his decades researching life and death. If any creature other than Murgaxor moves more than 10 feet into the cave, a defensive sigil detonates on the ceiling, causing a cave-in. A character who moves 5 feet into the cave can detect this sigil with a successful DC 17 Perception (Wisdom) check, and they can disable it with a successful DC 17 Intelligence (Arcana) check or a successful DC 17 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools. Failing the check by 5 or more causes the sigil to detonate.
- If the sigil detonates, each creature in the cave must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 18 (4d8) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone and restrained by debris. On a successful saving throw, they take half as much damage and aren’t knocked prone or restrained. A creature can use an action to try to pull itself or another creature it can reach out of the debris, doing so with a successful DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check. A creature freed from the debris is no longer restrained by it. The cave-in destroys Murgaxor’s collection of lab specimens.
- **Secret Door**. A character who searches the northernmost wall of the cave and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a door disguised to blend in with the surrounding stone. This 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall stone door swings into a small, secret chamber.
- **Treasure**. The secret chamber is unlit and holds Murgaxor’s stash of easily transportable valuables, which he keeps here in case he has to flee the badlands in a hurry. These valuables are in plain view along the north wall:
	- A [[ring of mind shielding]] in a metal jewelry box (the ring holds the soul of a troll mage named Kallanthus, who is afraid to leave the ring and travel to the afterlife)
	- A [[cloak of elvenkind]] crafted from woven vines

**Hall of Wisdom (T3A-T3E)**
This winding network of tunnels and alcoves holds collections of books, scrolls, and curios, which are heaped on shelves and in niches along the cave walls. This area has four entry points, each with its own collection of items. The shadow demons in area T3E investigate any loud noises coming from the neighboring areas.

 - [ ]  **T3A. Southeast Entrance**
>The floor of this open cave is strewn with the bones of small birds, reptiles, and wild dogs.

- The animal bones are the remains of Murgaxor’s and Y’demi’s past meals.

 - [ ]  **T3B. Southwest Entrance**
>Books and scroll cases are tucked in nooks along the west wall of this open cave. Many of the book spines and scroll cases bear the Strixhaven star.

- Items bearing the Strixhaven star were stolen from the university. A character who succeeds on a DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check while searching the collection finds several annotated books about the Caerdoon region, located a few miles from the badlands. The annotations, sloppily written in Common, deal with locating sites of large battles and how best to explore those locations.
- **Treasure**. Characters who spend at least 10 minutes searching this area find a [[spell scroll]] of *fear* and a [[spell scroll]] of *false life*.

 - [ ]  **T3C. Empty Chamber**

- This empty chamber has short tunnels connecting it to area T3B to the south, area T3D to the north, and area T3E to the east.

 - [ ]  **T3D. Northwest Entrance**
>This open cave and its walls hold racks of weapons and spellcasting foci, including orbs, animal fetishes, carved stones, and the like.

- The spellcasting foci stored here aren’t magical, but one is an obsidian orb cut in the motif of an ancient troll civilization. This orb would fetch 300 gp from a collector.
- **Secret Door**. A character who searches the east wall and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a door disguised to blend in with the surrounding stone. This 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall stone door opens into a smaller secret room.
- **Treasure**. The secret room is unlit and once held the Oriq's most prized arcane texts, most of which have been moved to various places (Ruins of Caerdoon, Wiltroot Hall, etc). The remaining texts — of which there are twelve stacked in two piles of six — are still valuable. The university would pay 500 gp for their safe return.

 - [ ]  **T3E. East Entrance**
>Ineptly painted portraits of Murgaxor hang on the walls of this shadowy cave. Stairs cut into the north wall lead down to a lower level.

- Four shadow demons hide in the shadows of this cave. They attack visitors who aren’t accompanied by Murgaxor or Y’demi. Characters who have a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 17 or higher spot the shadow demons before they attack and aren’t surprised by them.
- The stairs in the north wall lead down to areas U1 through U4, detailed later in the “Underground Cave” section.

`encounter: 4: Shadow Demon`

 - [ ]  T4. Supply Room
>A jumbled pile of supplies lies on the floor of this open cave and spills into a narrow hallway beyond.

- This cave holds what remains of the supplies Murgaxor used to explore the Ruins of Caerdoon, located just a few miles away. A character who spends at least 1 hour sifting through the tools can assemble one set of mason’s tools, two explorer’s packs, one dungeoneer’s pack, and one scholar’s pack.
- **Secret Door**. A character who searches the northernmost end of the cave and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a door disguised to blend with the surrounding stone. This 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall stone door swings into a small chamber.
- **Secret Room**. Murgaxor kept alchemical supplies in this unlit secret chamber. Most of the supplies have been removed except for two flasks of acid and three flasks of alchemist’s fire.

 - [ ]  **T5. Lab**
>The pungent odors of sweet potpourri and chemical preservatives waft from this cave. Carved into the walls are shelves bearing specimen jars, notebooks, and containers of herbs and alchemical reagents. In the middle of the cave rests a smooth stone slab covered in a rusty stain.

- Murgaxor conducted horrific experiments here. Primarily, he worked on transferring life from one creature to another.
- A character who spends at least 30 minutes skimming the notebooks can make a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check, piecing together the nature of Murgaxor’s work on a success. What Murgaxor describes in his notebooks lines up with the maladies that plagued Strixhaven last year.
- Harmless samples of flesh are stored here in jars. However, Murgaxor’s experiments created a few unfortunate Undead, which are described below.
- **Box of Helping Hands**. This unmarked, 2-foot-by-3-foot metal box has a simple latch keeping it closed. The box contains a dozen crawling claws. If the lid is opened, the crawling claws quickly skitter out. A character who immediately tries to close the lid can make a DC 15 Dexterity check; if the check succeeds, 1d6 crawling claws escape before the lid shuts; the others are trapped in the box, unable to escape until it is opened again.
- On their first turn in combat, crawling claws that escaped from the box scurry about the cave, knocking over jars of chemical supplies and creating a chemical mixture that fills the cave with noxious gas for 1 minute. When a creature enters the gas-filled cave for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Creatures that don’t need to breathe are immune to the gas, as are the crawling claws. A gust of wind spell or similar magic disperses the gas.

`encounter: 12: Crawling Claw`

- **Skull in a Jug**. Vargas Kancia was a Prismari student; he was researching elemental nodes in the badlands when he was abducted by Murgaxor, whose experiments transformed Vargas into a flameskull. Vargas rests in an unsealed, straight-sided glass jar filled with clear goo. If another creature comes within 5 feet of the jug, Vargas awakens, flies out of the jug covered in goo, and erupts in emerald flames. Vargas is confused and enraged, attacking whichever creature awakened him.
- A character can use an action to try to persuade Vargas to cease his attacks, doing so with a successful DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. Once he is talked down, Vargas realizes his anger is unjustified, apologizes for his outburst, and offers to help the characters for the remainder of the adventure. Vargas’s priorities are to see Murgaxor brought to justice and to resume his studies at Strixhaven.
- **Secret Door**. A character who searches the northwest wall of the cave and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a door disguised to blend with the surrounding stone. This 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall stone door opens into a cramped secret chamber.
- **Treasure**. The secret chamber is unlit and contains a set of alchemist’s supplies along with two potions of healing (greater) and one potion of poison.

 - [ ]  **T6. Mushroom Cave**

- Characters who approach this cave without first exploring area T7 attract the attention of the gorgon lairing there, causing the creature to charge out of area T7 and attack them.

>The stench of decay wafts from this unlit cave. Inside, rows of wooden planters mounted on the walls hold a variety of fungi. A large purple mushroom grows in the northwest corner.

- The large, purple mushroom growing in the northwest corner is a shrieker, which commences shrieking when any creature that’s not Murgaxor or Y’demi approaches more than 10 feet inside the cave. The shriek is loud enough to alert the spectator in area T1, the shadow demons in area T3E, and the gorgon in area T7.
- The fungi here are used in Murgaxor’s alchemical concoctions and poisons. Creatures foolish enough to eat the fungi must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for 1 hour.
- **Secret Door**. A character who searches the north wall of the cave and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check finds a door disguised to blend with the surrounding stone. This 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall stone door pulls open to reveal an unlit room containing a pair of hostile black puddings. The puddings spill out and attack as soon as the secret door is opened. Unless the characters were able to see into the room (with the aid of a clairvoyance spell or similar magic) before opening the door, they are surprised at the start of this encounter.

 - [ ]  **T7. Gorgon’s Cave**

- A gorgon occupies this otherwise empty cave. Characters who come into view of the grumpy gorgon provoke its anger, causing it to attack them.

`encounter: 1: Gorgon`

#### Week 6: Underground Cave

- **Underground Cave Features**. The underground cave was Murgaxor’s (and is now Y’demi’s) private chambers. It contains space for rituals, research, and quiet contemplation. It has the following features:
	- **Bare Stone**. This cave looks naturally formed, but the stone has been shaped and smoothed by magic. The cave walls have shelves built into them.
	- **Ceilings**. The ceilings are 10 feet high and gently curved and smoothed like the walls.
	- **Light**. All areas are lit by continual flame spells cast on wall sconces.
	- **Scry-Proof**. Any attempt to magically scry on a creature, object, or location within the underground cave fails automatically.




#### Ruins of Caerdoon

 - [ ] -


#### Encountering Malakar

 - [ ] -


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- Use the Detention Bog only if/when the players actually get detention!

### References

- Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos, Chapter 7
