 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* 

### Characters and Locations

* **Zaelith T'Kaarn** (non-gendered githzerai entropomancer). Malakar's second lieutenant, the Herald of Chaos, and a githzerai who came to Strixhaven from Kythri to study and refine chaos magic. Their work led them to experiment with chaotic energies, eventually embracing the school of entropomancy. Their experiments caused a massive explosion, destroying their lab and scattering magical fallout across the region. This event caught Malakar’s attention, and he recruited Zaelith as his second lieutenant, tasking them with sowing chaos and destabilizing the magical infrastructure of Eberron. Their appearance is unsettling: glowing, jagged cracks run across their ashen skin, shifting with an inner light like molten metal, and their silver eyes seem to ripple with chaotic energy. They wear frayed, iridescent robes that constantly shift in color and texture, and their form occasionally flickers, as if caught between dimensions.

* 

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ] -

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

- Maybe include a short planar jaunt through manifest zones spread around northern Argonnessen, as the players hunt down the BBEG's second lieutenant? If going this way, need to at least include Kythri.
- Definitely use the Wild Mange as an enemy.

### References

- 5e Wild Magic Spells (Homebrew): https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-Le8QjC35It68zqqfdgf
- Deep Magic from Kobold Press
