 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Map of Sphinx Sightings has a few visible markings indicating sightings in the area.
* 

### Characters and Locations

* **Theme**: Trials of agility and speed, with tests of aerial prowess (mostly Dexterity-based challenges).
* **Description**: A series of platforms and floating pathways amidst a vast open space, challenging the players' agility and dexterity.
* **Item(s)**: [[Wings of Flying]]
* **Sphinx**: Lirmar (Hieracosphinx)
	* **Personality**: Swift and vigilant, pushing adventurers to prove their grace and speed through challenging aerial obstacles.
	* **Dialogue**: "To soar with the grace of the wind is to master one's own destiny."

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **[[Regalport]]** (nearby capital city)

* This is the capital of the Principalities, with just about any product available that's related to the sea or shipping. It's also one of the few places that's familiar with the details of Sarlona.

* **High Prince's Estate**. Home of High Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn.
* **Pirate Exchange**. This exchange boasts a variety of merchants selling goods from across the continent of Khorvaire, as well as local catches of seafood and treasures found around the islands that make up the Principalities. The exchange is one of the few places that regularly stocks items from Argonnessen and Sarlona.
* **Seadragon Seaport**. 

 - [ ]  **Approaching Ninebay Island**

* Ninebay Island is a large manifest zone to Syrania, which results in strange sudden winds, changes in gravity, and other effects that will impact the PCs. The lair of the sphinx is actually in the clouds above Ninebay Island, where they PCs can eventually arrive if they can survive the challenges.

 - [ ]  **Climbing to the Clouds**

* Clouds begin to swirl beneath the players' feet as they walk across the island, and they eventually start to coalesce into small platforms that move them upward. Players must traverse the cloud platforms using Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, as the clouds shift beneath their feet. Failure may lead to a fall through the clouds, requiring a quick reaction, or fall damage. This takes the form of a skill challenge where four successful Dexterity (Acrobatics) must be completed before two failures. Each challenge takes place twenty feet above the last one.

 - [ ]  **Whirlwind Nexus**

* A central platform is surrounded by swirling vortexes of wind. Four elemental creatures, each representing a cardinal wind, guard the path forward. The steam mephit represents the hot summer south wind (red), the ice represents the cold winter north wind (blue), the dust represents the dry autumn east wind (yellow), and the mud mephit represents the gentle spring west wind (green). When each is defeated, it leaves behind a colored gem that's used later in the adventure. The platform is 100 feet above the ground.

`encounter: 1: Steam Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Ice Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Dust Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Mud Mephit` (reskinned slightly with more leaves and sticks mixed in so it looks more generally "spring-like")

 - [ ]  **Skyward Sentries**

* A series of floating platforms lead to a walled chamber ahead. Aerial sentries, winged constructs with razor-sharp feathers, patrol the area. A DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check is necessary to sneak by the sentries, with any failures resulting in them being alerted to that players' presence.
* At the center of the room, a magical chest awaits (containing the [[Wings of Flying]]). These platforms are 200 feet above the ground.

`encounter: 1: Aerial Sentry`

 - [ ]  **The Walled Chamber**

* This chamber is 300 feet above the ground, and houses a solitary figure known as a Cloudweaver (use the Living Cloudkill stat block if necessary). The Cloudweaver is named Amira, glows with a warm, soft, teal blue light, and floats as though weightless or underwater (a calmer, bluer version of Gale Cumulus from Disney's Elemental, so played by Wendi McLendon-Covey). She carries a small key that opens a "door" (a keyhole which opens up a gap in the clouds when the key is turned in it) which is the only exit out of the room. If any creature attempts to ascend in the room, then the walls grow upward with them. The intended solution is to steal the key from Amira, requiring a DC 12 Sleight of Hand check, with failure causing Amira to chastise the character and then uses her Spell Mimicry ability to fill the room with fog. Any subsequent checks must be made at disadvantage, until the PC has a means to see through the fog.

 - [ ]  **Pedestal of Seasons**

* A column of wind outside the previous doors catches the players and sweeps them up to this platform 400 feet above the ground. In the center of the cloud platform is a pedestal with four gem-sized indentations in each of the four cardinal directions at the top. If the players place the four gems from the Whirlwind Nexus in the correct positions (red at the bottom, blue at the top, yellow to the right, and green to the left) then a platform of cloud they're standing on begins rising upward toward a chamber 200 feet above.

 - [ ]  **Chamber of the Swift Guardian**

> As you ascend of a platform of cloud, your heads punch though a cloud above to a brightly glittering new chamber. Crystals embedded in the nearby clouds refract ambient light, casting prismatic hues across the vast space.
> In the center of this chamber, a majestic nest of golden feathers, adorned with radiant gemstones, serves as the regal perch for a creature with the head and wings of a hawk and the body of a lion. The creature spreads its wings, catching and spreading the chamber's iridescent glow, as its amber eyes catch yours, reflecting both wisdom and curiosity.
> "To soar with the grace of the wind is to master one's own destiny. You have done well to make it here - what do you need from me?"

* This chamber is 600 feet above the ground. Lirmar should ...?

 - [ ]  **OPTIONAL: Speartip Island**

* Something like this could be a fun sidequest, if the players want to explore the Principalities: https://www.worldanvil.com/w/eberron-23myeberron-artorias1x/a/speartip-location

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  Order of the Sapphire Scale Elves has basically taken control of House Thuranni, with the might of that house now behind the blue dragons.
 - [ ]  Buried deep within the House Thuranni is the Dragon's Path, a group dedicated to understanding the draconic prophecy. Leading the Dragon's Path is Viceroy Ureilya d'Thuranni.

### DM Notes

* Lirmar's lair is tailored toward Aither (Monk, Air).

### Random Tables



### References
