 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Map of Sphinx Sightings has a few visible markings indicating sightings in the area.
* 

### Characters and Locations

* **Lirmar** (Hieracosphinx)
* **High Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn** (LN male human ranger). The leader of the Lhazaar Principalities, and Commander of the Seadragon Fleet (from his ship the Dragoneye), whose home is in Regalport. High Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn is very clever, using his sword and words to get what he needs and wants. His reputation encourages local merchants to ally themselves with him in order to protect their vessels. No other band of pirates dares to raid Regalport. Ryger has allied himself with House Thuranni and gave them some land in Regalport soon after he became a prince. Many rumors spin about this alliance being a leverage against the Gray Tide principality. He wants the Principalities to join together as a true unified nation with a clear hierarchy, but that has not yet been achieved.
* **Baron Elar d'Thuranni** (LN male elf). Patriarch of House Thuranni. Baron Elar always has at his side two greater shadows named Wrem and Wrek. These creatures are as dark as night, and as insubstantial as smoke. They serve as the Baron's bodyguards, as well as his agents during the few important times when the Baron himself goes on an assassination. The Baron has a residence above the Grand Thuranni Theater, and runs the back of house.
* **Viceroy Ureilya d'Thuranni** (female elf). Secret leader of the Dragon's Path, a group dedicated to understanding the draconic prophecy. The Viceroy runs the front of house at the Grand Thuranni Theater when in town, but she travels the continent and lives elsewhere (and refuses to divulge where).
* **Terrance Akrifolous** (male changeling). High Prince Ryger's right hand man, and Commander of the second gem of the Seadragon Fleet, the Dragon's Hoard.

* **[[Regalport]]**
* **Ninebay Island**

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **Regalport** (nearby capital city)

This is the capital of the Principalities, with just about any product available that's related to the sea or shipping. It's also one of the few places that's familiar with the details of Sarlona (especially Rhiavhaar). Regalport is a punk rock "ride the lightning" fantasy fusion of New Orleans, Venice and Singapore. "Trapped lightning" is a design concept throughout the city, featuring street lamps with coursing currents of blue electricity (less like lightbulbs, more like Tesla coils) and public statues or tavern signs that cascade streaks of lightning (like neons).

* **High Prince's Estate**. Home of High Prince Ryger ir'Wynarn.
* **Pirate Exchange**. This exchange boasts a variety of merchants selling goods from across the continent of Khorvaire, as well as local catches of seafood and treasures found around the islands that make up the Principalities. The exchange is one of the few places that regularly stocks items from Argonnessen and Sarlona.
* **Seadragon Seaport**. Primary base of the Seadragons Fleet. The Seadragons have twenty ships and many loyal fighters.
* **Grand Thuranni Theater**. Home of Baron Elar d'Thuranni and headquarters of House Thuranni. Both the True Shapers guild (architecture, costuming, painting, pottery, and sculpture) and the Shadow Network (musicians, artists, actors, and all kinds of performers) operate out of the building, with elaborate plays put on as a front for the house's espionage and assassinations. Many changelings serve as staff and extras for the theater.
* **Shrine of the Giver.** Next to the theater is a temple to the giver, where many of the changelings who work in the theater spend their time.
* **Boromar Vineyard and Distillery**. A front business for the Boromar Clan's criminal activities in the area, especially in and around the Pirate Exchange. But they do grow grapes, and produce legitimately good wine and distilled brandy (which is often found on all ships leaving the ports here).
* **House Ghallanda Enclave**.
* **House Kundarak Enclave**.
* **House Orien Enclave**.

 - [ ]  **Approaching Ninebay Island**

* Ninebay Island is a large manifest zone to Syrania, which results in strange sudden winds, changes in gravity, and other effects that will impact the PCs. The lair of the sphinx is actually in the clouds above Ninebay Island, where the PCs can eventually arrive if they can survive the challenges.
* The PCs will need to assist the captain in navigating a sudden tumultuous storm that appears on their way to Ninebay Island. The PCs have to succeed on a number of skill checks (5 successes before 3 failures) in order to get through (examples below, but PCs may attempt whatever actions they can justify).
	- Athletics (DC 14): You climb the rigging to secure the sails.
	* Sleight of Hand (DC 10): You find a loose rope, secure it, and tie it off.
	- Strength (DC 14): You see the helm deviate, and use your strength the grab the wheel and force the ship back on course.
	- Investigation (DC 10): You notice ropes before they snap and manage to secure them.
	- Nature (DC 14): Your knowledge of the wind and waves allows you to suggest an alternate course to the captain which might allow him to steer out of the storm.
	- Perception (DC 14): You detect the scent of a fresh wind coming in. Your keen eyes see a break in the storm off in the distance. You recommend that the captain alter course to find calmer seas.
	- Arcana (DC 14): Your knowledge of magic leads you to believe that this storm is artificial in some way. Your analysis allows you to recommend course corrections to the captain.

 - [ ]  **Climbing to the Clouds**

* Clouds begin to swirl beneath the players' feet as they walk across the island, and they eventually start to coalesce into small platforms that move them upward. Players must traverse the cloud platforms using Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, as the clouds shift beneath their feet. Three successful checks must be made to reach the next scene.
* Failure may lead to a fall through the clouds, unless a quick reaction is performed to prevent it. Each challenge takes place thirty feet above the last one, determining what the potential fall damage would be if that check is failed (1d6 per 10 feet, with the first being at 30 feet and the last being at 90 feet).
* Check 1: `dice:3d6`, Check 2: `dice:6d6`, Check 3: `dice: 9d6`

 - [ ]  **Whirlwind Nexus**

* A central platform is surrounded by swirling vortexes of wind, 100 feet above the ground. Four elemental creatures, each representing a cardinal wind, guard the path forward.
* The steam mephit represents the hot summer south wind (red), the ice represents the cold winter north wind (blue), the dust represents the dry autumn east wind (yellow), and the mud mephit represents the gentle spring west wind (green). When each is defeated, it leaves behind a colored gem that's used later in the adventure.

`encounter: 1: Steam Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Ice Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Dust Mephit`
`encounter: 1: Mud Mephit` (reskinned slightly with more leaves and sticks mixed in so it looks more generally "spring-like")

 - [ ]  **Skyward Sentries**

* A series of floating platforms lead to a walled chamber ahead. Aerial sentries, winged constructs with razor-sharp feathers, patrol the area. A DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) check is necessary to sneak by the sentries, with any failures resulting in them being alerted to that players' presence.
* At the center of the room, a magical chest awaits (containing the [[Wings of Flying]]). These platforms are 200 feet above the ground.

`encounter: 1: Aerial Sentry`

 - [ ]  **The Walled Chamber**

* This chamber is 300 feet above the ground, and houses a solitary figure known as a Cloudweaver (use the Living Cloudkill stat block if necessary). The Cloudweaver is named Amira, glows with a warm, soft, teal blue light, and floats as though weightless or underwater (a calmer, bluer version of Gale Cumulus from Disney's Elemental, so played by Wendi McLendon-Covey). She carries a small key that opens a "door" (a keyhole which opens up a gap in the clouds when the key is turned in it) which is the only exit out of the room. If any creature attempts to ascend in the room, then the walls grow upward with them. The intended solution is to steal the key from Amira, requiring a DC 12 Sleight of Hand check, with failure causing Amira to chastise the character and then use her Spell Mimicry ability to fill the room with fog. Any subsequent checks must be made at disadvantage, until the PC has a means to see through the fog.

 - [ ]  **Pedestal of Seasons**

* A column of wind outside the previous doors catches the players and sweeps them up to this platform 400 feet above the ground. In the center of the cloud platform is a pedestal with four gem-sized indentations in each of the four cardinal directions at the top. If the players place the four gems from the Whirlwind Nexus in the correct positions (red at the bottom, blue at the top, yellow to the right, and green to the left) then a platform of cloud they're standing on begins rising upward toward a chamber 200 feet above.

 - [ ]  **Chamber of the Swift Guardian**

> As you ascend of a platform of cloud, your heads punch though a cloud above to a brightly glittering new chamber. Crystals embedded in the nearby clouds refract ambient light, casting prismatic hues across the vast space.
> In the center of this chamber, a majestic nest of golden feathers, adorned with radiant gemstones, serves as the regal perch for a creature with the head and wings of a hawk and the body of a lion. The creature spreads its wings, catching and spreading the chamber's iridescent glow, as its amber eyes catch yours, reflecting both wisdom and curiosity.

> "To soar with the grace of the wind is to master one's own destiny. Your dexterity has been tested, and you have been found worthy. I am at your service," the sphinx says, while bowing deeply.

* This chamber is 600 feet above the ground. Lirmar should fill in any lore about the blue dragons, others in the region, or anything the players would like to know about.

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The Order of the Sapphire Scale elves have basically taken control of House Thuranni, with the might of that house now behind the blue dragons.
 - [ ]  Buried deep within the House Thuranni is the Dragon's Path, a group dedicated to understanding the draconic prophecy. Leading the Dragon's Path is Viceroy Ureilya d'Thuranni.
 - [ ]  Speartip Island is said to be the location where Lhazaar first made landfall on Khorvaire after she arrived from Sarlona.
 - [ ]  Exiles from the House of Vol landed in the Lhazaar Principalities, specifically Farlnen (which is located on a Mabaran manifest zone), thousands of years ago and created the Bloodsail Principality. Over centuries, they’ve created a society where the living earn an undead afterlife through their deeds in life (different from the Blood of Vol principles that they no longer embrace). Their leaders, the Grim Lords, now rule over that area of the Principalities.
 - [ ]  Prince Kolberkon is the changeling leader of the Diresharks in the Lhazaar Principalities. He governs from Port Verge on the island of Questor. In order to further his plans to to expand and develop Port Verge—to have it rival Regalport and challenge High Prince Rygar ir'Wynarn and the Seadragons — Kolberkon has made alliances between his principality and the Order of the Emerald Claw and House Lyrandar.
 - [ ]  Prince Kel is the changeling leader of the Gray Tide Principality based at Lastpoint island. He established the principality because he wanted a homeland for the changelings that were being hunted down by Karrnath, Cyre, and Thrane. Some say that Lastpoint is the seat of the secret society known as the Cabinet of Faces.

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Regalport is tailored toward Staff (changelings are most common in Lhazaar and in larger cities). Lirmar's lair is tailored toward Aither (Monk, Air).

* **Theme**: Trials of agility and speed, with tests of aerial prowess (mostly Dexterity-based challenges).
* **Description**: A series of platforms and floating pathways amidst a vast open space, challenging the players' agility and dexterity.
* **Item(s)**: [[Wings of Flying]]
* **Sphinx**: Lirmar (Hieracosphinx)
	* **Personality**: Swift and vigilant, pushing adventurers to prove their grace and speed through challenging aerial obstacles.
	* **Dialogue**: "To soar with the grace of the wind is to master one's own destiny."

### References

* https://www.reddit.com/r/Eberron/comments/i4luhe/detailed_map_of_regalport/
* https://www.worldanvil.com/w/eberron-23myeberron-artorias1x/a/speartip-location
* Chronicles of Eberron, pg. 155 (The Grim Lords)
