 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Map of Sphinx Sightings has a few visible markings indicating sightings in the area.
* Calls for help from other elves have been emerging from the capital of Shae Cairdal, as strange spectral creatures have been seen coming from the nearby Moonblade Jungle.

### Characters and Locations

* **Theme**: Trials of empathy and spiritual awareness amidst ancient rites (mostly Intelligence-based challenges).
* **Description**: A sacred chamber filled with ancient rituals and spiritual challenges, testing the players' empathy and connection with the spirits.
* **Mechanics**: Inspired by the Sunken Ship in Super Mario RPG, have a five to six room dungeon with a clue in each room, culminating in a single word passphrase that's required to access the Sphinx's inner sanctum. Each clue can be obtained by completing a different ritual or spiritual challenge (including at least one combat encounter with a spiritual/undead foe).
* **Item(s)**: Black [[Dragon Mask]]
* **Sphinx**: Aerion (Loquasphinx)
	* **Personality**: Serene and empathetic, guiding adventurers to explore the depths of their spiritual connections and empathy.
	* **Dialogue**: "In the harmony of spirits, one finds the true essence of their own existence."

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **[[Shae Cairdal]]** (nearby capital city)

* **Copper Dragon Hotel and Resort.** The headquarters of the copper dragons and their hospitality empire.
* **Fortress of the Sibling Kings.** The Sibling Kings is the title used for the joint rulers of Aerenal, traditionally a brother and sister of a noble house, selected by the Undying Court. When one of the siblings dies, the other gives up the throne and the Undying Court selects a new pair to rule. The current Sibling Kings are Balaereth and Tezaera, brother and sister of the Mendyrian Line.
* **Hall of Blades.** The Cairdal Blades is an elite military and espionage force in the service of Aerenal's Sibling Kings, and this is their primary base. Over the last few decades, refugee members of the Undying Court has been slowly filling out the ranks of the Blades, to the point where now the majority of the membership are Undying Court, with the remaining baring the Mark of Shadow. 
* **Temple of the Deathguard.** The Deathguard are a religious order dedicated to combating evil undead and those who would create them, and is exclusively composed of elf priests and warriors. The Deathguard are led by High Warden undying councilor Cial Jhaelian. Beneath him are four Wardens who are each responsible for Deathguard operations in one of Argonnessen, Khorvaire, Sarlona, or Xen'drik.
* **Temple to the Undying Court.** 
* **Souvrouh of Transition.** Temple dedicated to the Priests of Transition.

 - [ ]  **Approaching the Moonblade Jungle**

* 

 - [ ]  **Hall of Arcane Resonance**

>Glyphs and arcane symbols adorn the walls, pulsating with magical energy which also forms a barrier across a staircase leading down. In the center of the room, a spectral figure with pointed ears awaits.

* The figure is Aeren, who will be happy to see any elf who approaches the temple. They are a mythical hero said to have freed the elves from the giants of Xen'drik, and is now here in a spectral form.

>I am happy to see that my people have persisted after all these many years. I have not seen another of my kind in quite some time. I do hope you are up to the challenge.
>Existence is a spiritual journey far longer than a single lifetime. May the spirits of those who came before guide you in your journey.

* A DC 12 Intelligence (Arcana) check is required to decipher the symbols and align them correctly, allowing access deeper into the temple. A failure results in 1d10 force damage to any creature within 10 feet of a glyph as all the glyphs explode, causing the force field to drop.

 - [ ]  **Communion of Ancients**

>You enter an eerily quiet room, where a communion of spectral figures gathers, yearning to be heard. A wall of spiritual flame covers a door o the far end of the room, above which is written "Whispers woven through spirit's embrace, Chronicles entwined in time and space. Arrange the echoes, past to present, Harmony found, the spirits' consent.".

* Players must listen to the stories of a group of spirits and arrange them in chronological order (presented in that order below), showcasing their empathy and understanding. Successful Intelligence (History) checks can be used to gather information (clues) from the spirits, attempted no more than once per player per spirit. The initial introduction of the spirits should be done in random order (by rolling a d6, and re-rolling 6s).

1) **Cardaen.** For many years, I unwittingly fought battles against my own people. When I did enter the battlefield of my accord, the Titan King knew fear for the first time in his life. Much was lost in that war, including the only love I had ever known, but those we fought feared my name until the end.
2) **Aeren.** We elves shared a common reverence for our ancestors, and with the war ended and empowered by the arcane knowledge we gained from our former masters, most of us set the sword aside and took up the path of the book. We dedicated ourselves to the study of magic, mysticism, and a way to avoid losing our elders.
3) **The First Soungraloi (nameless).** I discovered a journal of Aeren's, concealed within a platinum urn. This journal contained the ritual that resulted in the great sacrifice of the elf heroes, as well as Aeren's notes on the rite that would eventually become The Rite of Transition, the greatest Ritual of the Undying Court.
4) **Minara Vol.** I sought to end a long-standing war between two powerful races through an arcane and genetic project that would fuse the bloodlines of both species. While initially successful, it eventually meant the end of my entire line.
5) **Shae Mordai Citizen (nameless).** I was there when the great city fell. So much death was around that I couldn't make sense of. True death brought to the City of the Dead. Such senseless suffering. Why did they do it?

 - [ ]  **Astral Harmonium**

>An air of religious significance hangs in the air, just as orbs of light hang from the ceiling of this large chamber. There is no apparent way out of this chamber that is fully bathed in black, but the rhythmic patterns of the orbs' movements draw your attention.

* A series of Intelligence checks are required to understand the significance of the celestial chamber.
* A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals the presence of twelve orbs of light. A 14 or greater reveals that one orb is glowing much brighter than all the others, while one is much dimmer. An 18 or greater reveals a thirteenth orb that is unlit, further from the others, and inaccessible.
* A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Religion) check reveals that the orbs seem to align with the planes of Eberron. A 15 or greater reveals that the brightest glowing orb correlates to the plane of Irian.

 - [ ]  **Grove of Spirits**

* Nature

 - [ ]  **Crypt of Forgotten Lore**

>You come upon a grand crypt and library, filled with dusty tomes and forgotten scrolls, as well as a series of pristine sarcophagi.

* An Intelligence (Investigation) check is essential to navigate the library's vast collection. Players can search for knowledge, and gain a +2 bonus on any information related to the undead. Also found here is the command word for the [[Lantern of Seeking]]'s Undead creatures.

 - [ ]  Sphinx Lair

* 

>"In the harmony of spirits, one finds the true essence of their own existence. Your intelligence has been tested, and you have been found worthy. I am at your service," the sphinx says, while bowing deeply.
### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  Some say that Aeren's journal contained not only the rituals that would come to shape elven life on Aerenal, but also a dedicated prophecy that Aeren gifted the founders of the island-nation. The myth states that this included a plan for the elves, which is at odds with the Draconic Prophesy, and that that is one of the purposes of the Undying Court.
 - [ ]  

### DM Notes

* Shae Cairdal is tailored toward Thana (Aerenal). Aerion's lair is tailored toward Verity (Arcane Trickster, so Int, but probably need to add some Dex based Rogue things as well).
* Incorporate a Moonblade in the area somehow? http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/wondrous-items:moonblade

### Random Tables



### References

* https://terra-mortem.fandom.com/wiki/Vadallia_and_Cardaen
