 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Map of Sphinx Sightings has a few visible markings indicating sightings in the area.
* Calls for help from other elves have been emerging from the capital of Shae Cairdal, as strange spectral creatures have been seen coming from the nearby Moonblade Jungle.

### Characters and Locations

* **Theme**: Trials of empathy and spiritual awareness amidst ancient rites (mostly Intelligence-based challenges).
* **Description**: A sacred chamber filled with ancient rituals and spiritual challenges, testing the players' empathy and connection with the spirits.
* **Mechanics**: Inspired by the Sunken Ship in Super Mario RPG, have a five to six room dungeon with a clue in each room, culminating in a single word passphrase that's required to access the Sphinx's inner sanctum. Each clue can be obtained by completing a different ritual or spiritual challenge (including at least one combat encounter with a spiritual/undead foe).
* **Item(s)**: Black [[Dragon Mask]]
* **Sphinx**: Aelion (Loquasphinx)
	* **Personality**: Serene and empathetic, guiding adventurers to explore the depths of their spiritual connections and empathy.
	* **Dialogue**: "In the harmony of spirits, one finds the true essence of their own existence."

* **Balaereth and Tezaera Mendyrian** (LG male and female elves). The "Sibling Kings" and current rulers of Shae Cairdal (and with it all of Aerenal).
* **Cial Jhaelian** (NG male elf). High Warden of the Deathguard and Undying Councilor.
* **Elyon Winslow** (NG male elf). Deathgard Warden of Sarlona, and older uncle of [[Thana Winslow]].
* **Kauverra** (CN female copper dragon). The head of the copper dragon's hospitality empire, her office is on the top floor of the Copper Dragon Hotel and Resort.

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **[[Shae Cairdal]]** (nearby capital city)

* **Copper Dragon Hotel and Resort.** The headquarters of the copper dragons and their hospitality empire. The top floor is the office of Kauverra the copper dragon herself. The entire hotel is decorated with items of beauty, including prevalent diamonds.
* **Fortress of the Sibling Kings.** The Sibling Kings is the title used for the joint rulers of Aerenal, traditionally a brother and sister of a noble house, selected by the Undying Court. When one of the siblings dies, the other gives up the throne and the Undying Court selects a new pair to rule. The current Sibling Kings are Balaereth and Tezaera, brother and sister of the Mendyrian Line.
* **Hall of Blades.** The Cairdal Blades is an elite military and espionage force in the service of Aerenal's Sibling Kings, and this is their primary base. Over the last few decades, refugee members of the Undying Court have been slowly filling out the ranks of the Blades, to the point where now the majority of the membership are Undying Court, with the remainder bearing the Mark of Shadow. 
* **Temple of the Deathguard.** The Deathguard are a religious order dedicated to combating evil undead and those who would create them, and is exclusively composed of elf priests and warriors. The Deathguard are led by High Warden undying councilor Cial Jhaelian. Beneath him are four Wardens who are each responsible for Deathguard operations in one of Argonnessen, Khorvaire, Sarlona, or Xen'drik.
* **Temple to the Undying Court.** This large temple contains multiple levels and resembles a pyramid. Within this temple, many guides and priests live communally, and it's used as a gathering place for public rituals.
	* The first level is the public gathering and ritual space, staffed by the _ersvitour_
	* The second level is the "Souvrouh of Transition", the space dedicated to the Priests of Transition.

 - [ ]  **Approaching the Moonblade Jungle**

* 

 - [ ]  **Hall of Arcane Resonance**

>Glyphs and arcane symbols adorn the walls, pulsating with magical energy which also forms a barrier across a staircase leading down. In the center of the room, a spectral figure with pointed ears awaits.

* The figure is Aeren, who will be happy to see any elf who approaches the temple. They are a mythical hero said to have freed the elves from the giants of Xen'drik, and is now here in a spectral form.

>I am happy to see that my people have persisted after all these many years. I have not seen another of my kind in quite some time. I do hope you are up to the challenge.
>Existence is a spiritual journey far longer than a single lifetime. May the spirits of those who came before guide you in your journey.

* A DC 12 Intelligence (Arcana) check is required to decipher the symbols and align them correctly, allowing access deeper into the temple. A failure results in 1d10 force damage to any creature within 10 feet of a glyph as all the glyphs explode, causing the force field to drop.
* A careful inspection of the room (DC 12 Investigation check) reveals that the door is in the shape of a letter D.

 - [ ]  **Communion of Ancients**

>You enter an eerily quiet room, where a communion of spectral figures gathers, yearning to be heard. A wall of spiritual flame covers a door on the far end of the room, above which is written "Whispers woven through spirit's embrace, Chronicles entwined in time and space. Arrange the echoes, past to present, Harmony found, the spirits' ascent.".

* Players must listen to the stories of a group of spirits and arrange them in chronological order (presented in that order below). Successful Intelligence (History) checks can be used to gather information (clues) from the spirits, attempted no more than once per player per spirit. The initial introduction of the spirits should be done in random order (by rolling a d6, and re-rolling 6s).

1) **Cardaen.** For many years, I unwittingly fought battles against my own people. When I did enter the battlefield of my accord, the Titan King knew fear for the first time in his life. Much was lost in that war, including the only love I had ever known, but those we fought feared my name until the end.
2) **Aeren.** We elves shared a common reverence for our ancestors, and with the war ended and empowered by the arcane knowledge we gained from our former masters, most of us set the sword aside and took up the path of the book. We dedicated ourselves to the study of magic, mysticism, and a way to avoid losing our elders.
3) **The First Soungraloi (nameless).** I discovered a journal of Aeren's, concealed within a platinum urn. This journal contained the ritual that resulted in the great sacrifice of the elf heroes, as well as Aeren's notes on the rite that would eventually become The Rite of Transition, the greatest Ritual of the Undying Court.
4) **Minara Vol.** I sought to end a long-standing war between two powerful races through an arcane and genetic project that would fuse the bloodlines of both species. While initially successful, it eventually meant the end of my entire line.
5) **Shae Mordai Citizen (nameless).** I was there when the great city fell. So much death was around that I couldn't make sense of. True death brought to the City of the Dead. Such senseless suffering. Why did they do it?

* When all spirits are arranged in the correct order, they each disappear sequentially, ascending through the chamber ceiling and taking the spiritual flame covering the door with them. Incorrect orders result in each player in the room taking 1d12 radiant damage from the spiritual flame lashing out.
* A careful inspection of the room (DC 13 Investigation check) reveals a shape of the floor, where each spirit was standing, in the shape of a letter E.

 - [ ]  **Astral Harmonium**

>An air of religious significance hangs in the air, just as orbs of light hang from the ceiling of this large chamber. There is no apparent way out of this chamber that is fully bathed in black, but the rhythmic patterns of the orbs' movements draw your attention. A small pedestal, sitting in the center of the room and bearing a golden mask symbol, is the only other feature.

* A series of Intelligence checks are required to understand the significance of the celestial chamber. The only way to escape the room is to place the Irian orb into the Undying Court pedestal in the center of the room, which reveals a staircase downward. Any other orbs placed on the pedestal result in a monster emerging from the darkness.
   `encounter: 1: Allip`
* A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals the presence of twelve orbs of light. A 14 or greater reveals that one orb is glowing much brighter than all the others, while one is much dimmer. An 18 or greater reveals a thirteenth orb that is unlit, further from the others, and inaccessible.
* A successful DC 12 Intelligence (Religion) check reveals that the orbs seem to align with the planes of Eberron (including each having a different color). A 15 or greater reveals that the brightest glowing white orb correlates to the plane of Irian. An 18 or greater reveals the connection between Irian and the Undying Court of Aerenal (as well as the mask symbol's significance).
* A careful inspection of the room (DC 14 Investigation check) reveals that the nose of the golden mask is in the shape of a letter A.

 - [ ]  **Grove of Spirits**

* A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check reveals the presence of the _modril tree_, a tree only found on Aerenal and which only grows in grave dirt.
* A careful inspection of the room (DC 15 Investigation check) reveals that one of the more prominent trees is in the shape of a letter T.

 - [ ]  **Crypt of Forgotten Lore**

>You come upon a grand crypt and library, filled with dusty tomes and forgotten scrolls, as well as a series of pristine sarcophagi.

* An Intelligence (Investigation) check is essential to navigate the library's vast collection. Players can search for knowledge, and gain a +2 bonus on any information related to the undead, Aerenal, or necromantic magic.
* A successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals the presence of a book with a strange alphabet lock on it, titled "*On The Nature of Undeath*". Inside is the command word for the [[Lantern of Seeking]]'s Undead creatures. In order to open it, a letter must be obtained from each of the rooms (five total including this one), and entered into the lock in the correct order, spelling out DEATH.
* Any incorrect guesses at the book combination results in an undead creature arising from a sarcophagus. Optionally (if no combat has occurred up to this point), a creature could emerge right after the book is opened.
   `encounter: 1: Banshee`
* A careful inspection of the room (DC 16 Investigation check) reveals that the sarcophagi are arranged in the shape of a letter H.

 - [ ]  **Chamber of the Spiritual Guardian**

* Aelion gifts the party with the Black [[Dragon Mask]], as well as whatever information they would like about Aerenal and the attack on Shae Mordai. He is the only one that can be certain that it was the obsidian dragons that performed the attack, and that they returned to Argonnessen afterward.

>"In the harmony of spirits, one finds the true essence of their own existence. Your intelligence has been tested, and you have been found worthy. I am at your service," the sphinx says, while bowing deeply.
### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The Aereni believe that the spirits of their ancestors watch over them constantly, and their undying ancestors literally walk among them. _"Existence is a spiritual journey far longer than a single lifetime. Only the Undying can ever truly learn what great wonders lie at its end."_
 - [ ]  Reverence of death itself is essential for every Aereni, and some choose to wear this devotion openly by donning Death Masks, and others wear it permanently etched into their skin, with elaborate tattoos of bones and skulls. Some even strive to emulate the mannerisms of the dead.
 - [ ]  To the Aereni, there exists no greater glory than to become one of the Deathless, and subsequently watch over their descendents. In life they try to prove their worthiness for this great honor, and at the end of life they hope to be accepted into the ranks of the Undying Court.
 - [ ]  The elves believe that elven souls, the ones belonging to those who do not become undying that is, forever remain in Eberron as spirits. These souls cannot continue on their own spiritual journey, only the undying do that after death, but nonetheless they remain to watch over their descendants and guide them on their own journeys.
 - [ ]  Among those elves who can sense elven souls, none of them have found any evidence of any souls in or around Shae Mordai, which is simply unheard of. The predominant theory is that some powerful magic took the souls, or whisked them off to some other plane such as Dolurrh (or Mabar or Irian).
 - [ ]  Unlike other undead, the Undying Court are sustained by the positive energies of Irian and the devotion of their descendants, and have no need for blood or life energy as other undead do. True undead are seen as a violation of the laws of nature and spirit, and are to be destroyed, as they are a corruption of the order constructed by the Undying Court.
 - [ ]  As so much of Aereni worship is dedicated to one's own family, few proper places of worship are dedicated to the Undying Court. The true temples of one's ancestors are found within the heart, home, and community. Most elven homes have shrines dedicated to that family's ancestors, while elven towns and cities have public monuments of the honored dead.
 - [ ]  Some say that Aeren's journal contained not only the rituals that would come to shape elven life on Aerenal, but also a dedicated prophecy that Aeren gifted the founders of the island-nation. The myth states that this included a plan for the elves, which is at odds with the Draconic Prophesy, and that that is one of the purposes of the Undying Court.
 - [ ]  The Undying Court moved from Shae Mordai to Shae Cairdal immediately after the attack, when the high priests were barely evacuated alive.
 - [ ]  Any time the Mark of Shadow appears among the population or Aerenal — only one or two in each generation — the Cairdal Blades are quick to induct them into their ranks. These individuals are then generally trained as rogues.
 - [ ]  More recently, refugee members of the Undying Court from Shae Mordai have been filling the ranks of the Cairdal Blades. This has caused the Blades to be more aligned with the Deathless and the plane of Irian, while the Deathguard are more interested in traditional undead and the plane of Mabar (two sides of the same coin).

### DM Notes

* Shae Cairdal is tailored toward Thana (Aerenal). Aerion's lair is tailored toward Verity (Arcane Trickster, so Int, but probably need to add some Dex based Rogue things as well).
* Incorporate a Moonblade in the area somehow? http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/wondrous-items:moonblade

### Random Tables



### References

* https://terra-mortem.fandom.com/wiki/Vadallia_and_Cardaen
