 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The Map of Sphinx Sightings has a few visible markings indicating sightings in the area.
* 

### Characters and Locations

* **Elemaeus** (Leucosphinx)

* **Icewhite Island**. The largest of the "children islands" in the southern section of Frostfell, and home of the Dragon Giants (Order of the Ivory Scale).
* **Icerazer**. A city of spires that sits atop of glacial formation, elevated to protect it from the dangerous creatures that roam the Frostfell.

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **Navigating Icewhite Island**

* This scene is handled in 10 minute "dungeon" rounds, where each player gets an (optional) turn each round. Marching order can be declared, or initialtive rolled, and that order used throughout this scene.
* Starting out the scene, and at the top of each hour (six rounds, can optionally use a clock), a new roll against the Extreme Cold conditions is made (unless the cold is negated in some way).


 - [ ]  **Icerazer** (nearby town)

* **Order of the Ivory Scale**. A subset of frost giants still revere and worship the dragons, specifically a white dragon who once lived nearby named Kazdurakashtan. He went missing and presumed dead several generations ago (about a hundred years), but the Order still adheres to his teachings of persistence in the face of adversity.
* **Temple of Dral Khatuur**. Dral Khatuur, called the Heart of Winter and the Killing Cold, is one of the fiendish Overlords that ruled Eberron during the Age of Demons. She has dominion over cold and winter. The frost giants here revere her.
* **Thrym Hound Stable**. Some thrym hounds live wild, whereas others serve frost giants as steeds and hunting companions, such as those housed in Icerazer. These hounds have their sharp, spiny fur trimmed in order to make room for a saddle, but even frost giants need to be careful where to put their hands. A thrym hound is the size of an elephant, standing ten feet high at the shoulder and weighing more than 6 tons.
>_This wolf-like creature has a pelt of jagged ice crystals instead of fur. It stands as tall as a house, glaring with baleful white eyes._

 - [ ]  Finding the Temple

* 

 - [ ]  Elmaeus' Lair


### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* **Dark Gift of Winter**. Dral Khatuur teaches you to embrace the killing cold. Whenever you would take cold damage, you instead gain that many temporary hit points.

* **Theme**: Challenges of resilience and adaptability in the unforgiving cold (mostly Constitution-based challenges).
* **Description**: A vast icy cavern filled with treacherous terrains and icy obstacles, testing the players' resilience in the face of extreme cold.
* **Item(s)**: White [[Dragon Mask]]
* **Sphinx**: Elemaeus (Leucosphinx)
	* **Personality**: Stoic yet nurturing, guiding adventurers to harness the power of resilience and adaptability in the midst of the unforgiving cold.
	* **Dialogue**: "In the embrace of the icy winds, one discovers the warmth of their own resilience."

### References

