 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The lair of a fallen sphinx, a Gypsosphinx (or creature of death and carrion) is hidden in the Endworld Mountains.
* Reigney directs the players toward this general area on a mission to conquer this sphinx (his sibling).
* The players may decide to start with any of the three nearby town scenes below, who will give them some information about the Gypsosphinx.

### Characters and Locations

* Stygianos (Gypsosphinx)

* **[[Karrlakton]]**
* **[[Loom Keep]]**
* **[[Gatherhold]]**
* **[[Wyrmwatch, Hope]]**
* **Endwall Mountains**

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **[[Karrlakton]] or [[Loom Keep]]** (Karrnath)

* Escher in Loom Keep has been entreating the creature to reveal the time and place of his death, hoping to ensure his immortality. He has been bringing payment in the form of human corpses. But the sphinx has yet to reveal its exact location, and he's been leaving the corpses at the foot of the Endwall Mountains.

 - [ ]  **[[Gatherhold]]** (Talenta Plains)

* The halflings of Gatherhold have seen the sphinx flying overhead at night. They have also found dead dinosaurs across the desert during their hunts. The trail appears to head toward the south end of the Endwall Mountains.

 - [ ]  **[[Wyrmwatch, Hope]]** (Q'barra)

* The people of Wyrmwatch, Hope have benefitted from the nearby sphinx lair, as time doesn't pass normally there. The same people have been running the community for over fifty years, but don't seem to be aware of it because they never leave. They believe the sphinx to be a celestial servant or reflection of the Silver Flame, and they worship it when it flies overhead.
* Most residents know that the sphinx's lair is on the east side of the Endwall Mountains, somewhere north of Wyrmwatch.

 - [ ]  **Endwall Mountains**

* 

 - [ ]  Sphinx 1

* 

 - [ ]  Sphinx 2

* 

 - [ ]  Sphinx 3

* 

 - [ ]  Sphinx 4

* 

 - [ ]  Sphinx 5

* 

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Monsters: Sandwyrm (ToB1), Sand Silhouette (ToB1), Accursed Defiler (ToB1), Anubian (ToB1), Cactid (ToB1)
* Possibly incorporate the Temple of the Sapphire Eidolon as a powerful artifact opportunity.
* Gypsosphinx temples are where the sphinx is served by an order of priests who understand its hunger, entertain it with discussions of philosophy, butchery, and gossip, and know when to withdraw and leave their patron to silent contemplation. Such temples are often quite rich, as the gypsosphinx at its heart demands its priests live well, the better to reflect its own importance and status.

### References

