 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* Deep in an unnamed forest exists a glade rumored to hold great power. Legend tells that the dragon Vvaraak once spread druidic teachings from this glade, over sixteen thousand years ago. Although not as holy a site as Vvaraak’s Cave, which lies somewhere in the Shadow Marches, the Mystic Glade still bears the touch of the Prophecy.

### Characters and Locations

* 

* Mystic Glade

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **Approaching the Mystic Glade**

* Paths twist through the forest, but none lead directly to the Mystic Glade. The trails fork, branch, and double back. The thick forest canopy blocks out the stars, affording only an occasional glimpse of the sky, which makes navigation difficult. A pilgrim can find the way to the glade with a successful DC 20 Survival check. Forest creatures and wild animals unerringly confront travelers with ill intentions or greedy hearts, disrupting their progress. One path, in no way discernible from the others that wind through the forest, opens up into a shadowy glade. A group of three majestic trees with metallic bark stand at the northern edge of the glade, a bubbling brook trickling from their roots.
* The Mystic Glade, suffused so often with druidic magic while the Scaled Apostate conducted her lessons, bears an aura of nature’s power still. Creatures in the glade cast druid spells at +1 caster level. No matter the time of day outside, within the glade it’s always twilight. The stars, moons, and the Ring of Siberys seem twice as large and bright when viewed from here, and the heavenly bodies constantly rearrange themselves in patterns that resemble dragonmarks.
* Any player spending any amount of time studying the patterns in the sky can roll an Intelligence (Arcana) check. Starting with DC 8 (revealing one fact), a new fact is revealed for every +2, from the "Mystic Glade Prophesies" table.
* The glade measures 80 feet across and is almost perfectly circular. Grass and wildflowers cover the unusually flat and even ground. Though verdant, the grass is rough and uneven, and the wildflowers grow in wildly colored clumps. A constant soft breeze stirs the flowers, shaping and reshaping their dancing heads into Prophecy marks.

 - [ ]  **The Three Trees**

* Three immense bronzewood trees stand in the northern part of the glade, non-native to this region but flourishing. Whatever the season, the trees’ leaves display a variety of fall colors, and some hues not seen in nature. The leaves rustle in the ever-present breeze, and whispers suffuse the glade, vague sentences that tease the edge of hearing and speak of destiny.
* The bronzewood trees are worth a fortune, but powerful magic guards them. Anyone who tries to harvest the towering plants faces three angry treants when the bronzewoods animate. Gatekeeper druids who serve the order well and selflessly might sometimes be allowed to take a branch from the bronzewood trees to fashion a weapon or piece of armor; such branches come easily away from the trees and regrow in 24 hours.

`encounter: 3: Treant`

 - [ ]  **The Brook**

* The bubbling brook that erupts from the bronzewoods’ roots is always fresh and pure. Tiny pebbles on the brook’s bed constantly shift and rearrange in the current, forming mystic patterns. The brook dwindles and sinks into the ground shortly after it leaves the glade. Anyone who drinks from the brook gains the benefit of *[[cure wounds]]* (5th level) and *[[remove curse]]*. The water loses this property if removed from the brook. Any evil characters attempting to drink from the brook are attacked by the bronzewood treants.

 - [ ]  **Vvaraak's Cave**

 - [ ]  -

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The glade is one location where Vvaraak, also known as the Scaled Apostate, taught the principles of druidic magic to Gatekeeper orcs over ten thousand years ago.
 - [ ]  Gatekeeper druids find the Glade hospitable, and the waters there have healing powers. Creatures opposed to the Gatekeeper philosophy have difficulty approaching the glade.
 - [ ]  Three bronzewood trees grow in the glade.
 - [ ]  The glade offers valuable insights to Chamber agents and others who seek to understand the Prophecy.

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Create random table for "Mystic Glade Phophesies" that give the players clues to other adventures in other parts of the world, or clues into the goals of the dragons.

### References

