 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* 

### Characters and Locations

* **Windsor Stone** (LG male human barbarian). A scholar who studies the planes and spends much of his him in an Observatory he constructed at the Gate of Xabra on top of one of the residential towers of Arcanix.
* **Astra** (CG non-binary kalashtar sorcerer). Windsor's partner and often assistant in his research.
* **Aeon** (LG male angel). Verity's father.
* **Elyriel** (NN female angel). The Veiled Flame, Ninth among the Burning Host of Syrania, Elyriel appears as a tall, lithe celestial being, draped in flowing robes that shimmer with hues of azure and silver, and serves as guardian of any temporary portals to Eberron, including the Gate of Xabra. Elyriel embodies the calm and contemplative nature of Syrania, yet her demeanor conceals a fierce protectiveness over the portal she guards. She is wise and speaks in a melodious voice that resonates with the harmony of the plane.
* **Miraela Thespir** (LN female aasimar). A famed merchant at the Immeasurable Market, who offers rare potions and poisons. Miraela has luminescent skin that subtly glows in dim light, silvery-white hair, and deep azure eyes. She dresses in elegant, flowing garments in soft pastels. Miraela is composed and enigmatic, with a calm demeanor. She is fair but firm in her dealings, valuing ethical conduct in business. Despite her firmness, she has a deep sense of empathy, balancing it carefully with her business interests.
* **Dread Morgan / Morganna** (NE female hag, disguised as a moon elf). In her true form, Dread Morgan appears as a thin, pale creature whose long, matted black hair is festooned with ornaments made from bones and teeth. Her mouth curves up unnaturally high at the corners, and her bloodred lips are covered in blisters and boils. In her disguised form, the hag appears as Morganna, a slender moon elf with smooth black hair and sparkling sapphire eyes. She speaks in a husky, alluring voice and focuses on the business of running the bathhouse. Dread Morgan knows the ritual needed to bind a creature's desire to a cursed painting, which is recorded on a tiny scroll hidden in a bone ornament in her hair.
* **Vile Sazha / Azirssa** (CE female hag, disguised as a sun elf) Without her disguise, the chaotic evil Vile Sazha appears as a hunched figure with one muscular and one withered arm. She has catlike eyes, and rustred hair covers her head, back, and arms. Her sharp fangs cause her to slur when she speaks, and she hisses and screeches when threatened. In her disguised form, she appears as Azirssa, an athletic sun elf with copper hair who wears an ornate breastplate with a red fur mantle. She has a confident and jovial voice, and she promotes physical strength and good health. Vile Sazha knows how to create a suitable canvas for the hags' cursed paintings. This secret is tattooed on her withered arm in Infernal, and it describes a macabre process of stretching elven flesh over a frame made from blood-soaked wood.
* **Auntie Greenbones / Greensong** (LE female hag, disguised as a wood elf). The eldest member of the Fetid Gaze, the lawful evil Auntie Greenbones often defers to the other two hags on decision-making. In her true form, she is shriveled and worn, her dark green skin covered in bark and fungus. Insects crawl across her and hide in the thick braid of white hair that curls around her shoulders like a serpent. Anyone who stares into her milky-white, seemingly blind eyes sees a reflection of their own face made decrepit and withered by age. The hag's disguise is that of Greensong, a cheerful, rosy-cheeked wood elf who feigns blindness. She wears a delicate white veil across her eyes and speaks in a singsong voice, giggling often. She keeps her guard dog, Morty, with her at all times. This disguised hell hound appears as a mastiff with bloodshot eyes. Auntie Greenbones knows how to infuse demon ichor into the paints needed to create the cursed paintings that drive the coven's evil bargains. This recipe is inscribed on the inside of Morty's collar.
* **Saeth** (CE male cambion, disguised as a human). Was recruited by Dread Morgan in exchange for a gift of unusual components and secret rituals that he intends to put toward his own evil and ambitious plans one day. Saeth specifically wants to learn the secrets of the cursed paintings, and he is happy to betray his employers to obtain them. He carries a master key that opens all the locks in the bathhouse and the tower except the door to the tower studio (area T15). He also carries the coven's hag eye, which is disguised as a cat's-eye pin on his jacket.
* **Sylvarie Silversong** (NG female moon elf). Founded the Temple of the Restful Lily after being drawn to the hot spring by the visions of Sune. Her deep-seated insecurity over serving the angel of beauty was her downfall. Hoping to develop more confidence in her role as a priest of Sune, she was drawn into a bargain with the hags that saw her transformed into a medusa and trapped in the temple's former shrine for ten years. See area T12 for more information.
* **Gorba Daardenrian** (LN female silver dragonborn commoner). A mighty warrior who sought even greater strength through her bargain with the hags. When she realized the true nature of the bargain shortly before the curse struck, the dragonborn returned to the temple to challenge the coven, but she became a withered husk of her former self as she arrived. Now trapped here, she is especially fearful of Vile Sazha, who torments her relentlessly.
* **Glitter** (CG male tiefling spy). A jeweler in Sharn, as well as an informant for the City Watch. He came to the temple wanting to be a few inches taller, thinking the extra height would prove advantageous when conducting business transactions, but he renounced the hags' bargain when his new, taller form didn't suit him. The hags' curse transformed him into a kobold. In his new form, Glitter now bitterly serves the hags, speaking eloquently and addressing guests kindly. If the characters agree to help him undo the hags' curse, Glitter assures them they will gain a powerful ally in Sharn, as well as receive 500 gp in gems as soon as he can return to the city.
* **Falthrax Loderr** (NG shield dwarf commoner). Became fearful of growing old after a lifetime of dedication to Morgrave. After coming through the portal and being drawn in by the splendor and magic of the bathhouse, he bargained with the hags to restore his youth. But when second thoughts caused him to renounce the bargain, the hags' curse aged him well into his venerable years, and he is now wracked with constant pain. Having no idea how to return to Sharn and his old life, he has accepted his fate with quiet resignation, and he weeps quietly to himself when anyone speaks to him.

* **[[Arcanix]]**
* **[[Therendor (Syrania)]]**
* **Temple of the Restful Lotus**. This grand temple and bathhouse rests in a serene and ancient grove. The temple was built by Sylvarie Silversong, after visions bestowed by Sune led her to a hot spring infused with magic. Some years ago, a coven of green hags calling themselves the Fetid Gaze tricked Sylvarie into a bargain that allowed them to take over the bathhouse. These cruel and cunning fey now use the temple to lure wealthy, greedy, and vain nobles and adventurers, preying on their insecurities and tricking them into accepting dark bargains that ultimately lead to misery. The temple consists of three buildings. What was once Sylvarie's private tower has been taken over by the hags as a lair, and a former shrine to Sune has become a prison for the cursed elf. The main bathhouse looks exactly as Sylvarie built it, and it continues to provide services to visitors (although most of the staff of the bathhouse are the coven's wicked minions in disguise).

### Scenes and Situations

#### 1: The Gate of Xabra

 - [ ]  **Arcanix and the Observatory**

The adventure begins in Arcanix, where Windsor, leveraging his scholarly knowledge, aids the party in activating the Gate of Xabra. Valmoc, aware of celestial disturbances affecting both Syrania and the Material Plane, entrusts them with a mission to restore balance. Valmoc knows Professor Stone personally, as he has spent time in Arcanix doing work for the Silver Scales (in fact he went there when after leaving the party last time when they went to Sarlona).

Valmoc should direct the party to the school, and then toward Professor Windsor Stone. The players of course may explore any areas of Arcanix, including the village or the school itself.

 - [ ]  **The Plane of Syrania**

>Professor Stone uses a finger to trace a certain series of glyphs on the stones, which glow slightly as east is completed. When all the glyphs have been traced, everything within the Gate of Xabra disappears with a whoosh of air. In the next instance, you find yourself floating among the clouds.

Behind the players is a perfectly circular cloud that serves as a glowing portal back to the Gate of Xabra in Eberron. In front of them is Elyriel, who serves as the angelic guardian of temporary gates from Eberron (such as the Gate of Xabra). She is friendly to the players (and unfamiliar with Verity, since she's fairly new to the job), and directs them if they want to go anywhere, suggesting they at least visit the planes-famous Immeasurable Market.

If needing to move the story forward, any conversation can interrupted by a merchant from the Immeasurable Market (Miraela, see below) arriving to challenge Verity.

#### 2: The Slighted Merchant

 - [ ]  **The Immeasurable Market**

When the players approach the Immeasurable Market, a merchant quickly approaches the group and confronts Verity. This confrontation can also occur when they arrive at the plane if they decide to try going somewhere other than the Immeasurable Market. The merchant, a female aasimar named Miraela, is the one who Verity stole their mother's cure from. She is adamant that Verity owes her payment, and that she must hand over a soul or be reported to both Castiel and her father.

But Miraela is fair, and she would allow Verity to retrieve a few rare items from a rarely visited place called the Undercloud instead. One item is a golden lotus flower, which contains the soul of an enlightened mortal sage, that would cover the payment. The other item is something for Miraela's personal collection, a book which features a magical mirror on the front.

>An aasimar woman flies hurriedly toward you, and fixes her deep azure eyes on Verity, her expression serene yet unmistakably firm. She speaks in a clear, calm voice, "Verity, it has been some time since our last encounter. I see the paths you've chosen have led you back. Let us speak of past deeds and their weight on the present, shall we?"
>She turns toward the rest of you. "I am Miraela Thespir, a steward of rare and powerful potions and poisons. They and I have met before, under less forthright circumstances involving a certain invaluable cure they once acquired without transaction." Her tone softens slightly, addressing everyone in the group, "I propose an opportunity to balance our accounts. Venture into the Undercloud to retrieve two items: a golden lotus flower, which holds the soul of an enlightened mortal sage, and a book adorned with a magical mirror. These will settle your debt and perhaps, restore a bit of harmony to our relations."

 - [ ]  **The Undercloud**

The party needs to move silently through the drifting motes of earth or cloud, avoiding detection by the guardians of these artifacts, mist dancers known as Bereginyas. The party may use environmental elements or illusion spells to create distractions, drawing guardians away from the items they seek.

`encounter: 1: Bereginyas`

Once the book adorned with a magical mirror ("The Price of Beauty") is collected, it speaks to anyone who observes it. When any creature holds The Price of Beauty and gazes into the mirror, the image of Sune replaces their own reflection and speaks in a soft voice, saying, "Well met, dearest one. How do you feel today?"

The mirror's unique illusion magic reacts and responds to the creature looking into it. Though it is not sentient and cannot answer complex questions, the mirror offers encouragement and advice on grooming and self-confidence. As it does so, the illusion shows the creature looking into the mirror, but changing and grooming its skin, hair, makeup, and clothing as desired. If the creature holding the book is happy with how it looks, or shows no interest in such matters, the illusion reverts to a normal mirror until used again.

If the creature holding the book mentions a desire to change something about itself, or that it feels unwell, tired, or unhappy, the illusion responds, "If rest, relaxation, or transformation is what you need, then follow the lilies, dearest one. I am sure Sylvarie will see to your needs." The mirror then glows softly, and a 5-foot-wide, 7-foot-high portal appears in the nearest unoccupied space. The portal leads to an old woodland trail marked by posts that resemble sculpted stone lilies. As the characters will discover, the portal leads to a temple and bathhouse run by three elf sisters, where all is not as it seems.

> [!info]+ Book Description
> *The Price of Beauty* is bound in soft green leather, eight inches wide and fourteen inches tall, and set with golden clasps. The book gives off the unmistakable scent of lotus. Set into its cover is a polished oval mirror with a delicate gold frame styled like locks of hair, which appear to spill down around the face of anyone who looks into the mirror.
> The book is filled with beautiful illustrations of woodland scenes, art, and jewelry. Delicate handwriting accompanies the illustrations, in the form of short prayers and meditations dedicated to seeking self-worth, techniques for massage and healing, and recipes for creating balms and cosmetics.
On the last page, below the image of a beautiful golden lotus flower, is an inscription by the author, Sylvarie Silversong, which reads: "A mirror is a gateway to happiness, truth, and to accepting ourselves."

Should the players not inspect the book, or not decide to step through the portal, Verity's father (Aeon, full scene below) may appear in order to drive the story forward.

#### 3: The Price of Beauty

 - [ ]  **Temple of the Restful Lotus**

The Temple of the Restful Lotus is built around an enchanted hot spring in a large open grove in the High Forest (of Thelanis, as this is a story, but that's not important to the adventure). The woodland trail accessed through the portal leads to the temple from the east after a journey of a quarter mile. A longer trail leads west from the temple, winds northward, and ends at the edge of the forest. Both trails converge on the south side of the bathhouse building and the double doors leading into area T1.

If the characters put off entering the bathhouse building to first wander the grounds, the cambion Saeth (disguised as a human) leaves area T1 to intercept them. He encourages the characters to return with him to the bathhouse, describing the abandoned shrine as a dangerous place to be avoided, and saying that the tower is a private residence that cannot be entered. He does not force the issue, however.

##### Temple Features

- **Walls and Floors.** The bathhouse and the tower are luxuriously appointed, with walls and floors of polished stone. The stonework in the abandoned shrine is crumbling and caked with grime.
- **Doors**. Inside the bathhouse and the tower, wooden doors are carved with images of lotus flowers. Doors in the bathhouse are normally unlocked, but they can be locked by anyone who has a master key. Doors in the tower are normally locked. Unless otherwise noted, a locked door can be opened with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, broken in with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check, or attacked. A door has AC 15, 18 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.
- **Windows**. Within the bathhouse and the tower, finely made windows display abstract designs in stained glass. A window can be broken through with a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check or attacked; each one has AC 13, 3 hit points, and immunity to poison and psychic damage.
- **Light**. All areas of the bathhouse and the tower are filled with bright light during the day and evening, either from sunlight or lanterns. After midnight, these areas are dark unless characters are using a light source. The ground floor of the shrine (area T11) is unlit, while its basement is lit by a magic pool (see area T12 for details).

>[!info]+ The Fetid Gaze
>Three green hags named Dread Morgan, Vile Sazha, and Auntie Greenbones were once rivals who dwelled in an area of the Feywild coterminous with the High Forest. A decade ago, during a time when the boundaries between the planes thinned, the hags became aware of the magic spring controlled by Sylvarie - and decided to control and corrupt it for their own purposes. The covetous hags each knew part of a ritual for crafting magic paintings that could bind mortal creatures with a terrible curse. After agreeing to share their knowledge and work together, they formed a coven dedicated to claiming Sylvarie's temple and making it a base for their nefarious plans.
>The hags use their powers of illusion to pose as three elf sisters named Morganna, Azirssa, and Greensong. They are typically found in the bathhouse by day and in their tower lair at night. Each hag carries a master key that opens all the doors in the bathhouse and the tower.

The hags use Sylvarie's tower as their personal lair, but they spend their days in the bathhouse, maintaining their disguises. There, they meet with visitors and seek out potential new clients to manipulate. At night, they retreat to the tower and torment their current victims before resting.

If any guests become suspicious of the hags or their minions, the hags try to use *suggestion* or *dominate person* to isolate those characters so they can be captured or killed discreetly. Once the hags become aware that the adventurers aren't at the temple for its services, they try to distract them by beseeching the characters for aid, in exchange for one of their special rituals. The hags first try to recruit the characters to destroy Cyrena, the naiad who is bound to the baths (area T5), claiming that a "capricious elemental spirit" has been attacking guests and trying to claim the bathhouse as its home. If the characters appear particularly capable or dangerous, the hags might also try to trick them into destroying Sylvarie in the sacred pool below the abandoned shrine (area T12), hoping that the cursed elf-turned-medusa petrifies one or more of them in the process.

The coven's greatest weakness is the hags' contempt for one another. Each yearns to learn the others' secrets for creating the cursed paintings so that they can replace their rivals with their own daughters one day. Characters who learn these secrets can thus gain considerable leverage over the hags. The process of creating the cursed paintings that are the hallmark of the Fetid Gaze was first attributed to a night hag grandmother whose name other hags fear to speak. The method remains shrouded in secrecy, and each member of the Fetid Gaze knows only one part of the procedure. Each hag guards her knowledge zealously, fearing that giving up her secret would make her expendable to the other hags.

Disguised as elves, the hags tempt guests into undergoing magical transformations. Their rituals, which they call treatments, seem entirely beneficial on the surface (see "Magic Treatments" below), and the hags are skilled at tricking guests into thinking the benefits outweigh the cost. The price for these special rituals is described as "some small boon," which the sisters promise to call for within a year. Any creature that accepts the bargain is taken to the studio in the temple tower (area T15), where the sisters work together to paint a beautiful portrait of the creature over a period of 1 hour. At the end of that time, the magic of the portrait alters the creature in the desired manner.

The benefits granted by the bargain normally last for a year. After that, the beneficiary suddenly experiences the opposite of the intended effect of the ritual, which transforms the creature into the dark reflection of its initial desire. For example, those who sought physical power are weakened to the point of helplessness, while those who sought beauty become hideous to behold. If a creature renounces the hags' gift before the year is up, this curse takes effect immediately. Over the last ten years, the hags have cursed hundreds of victims, most of whom have perished as a result of their dark bargains.

>[!info]+ Magic Treatments
>The magical benefits that the hags typically offer to NPCs can take whatever form makes sense for the story. If one or more of the characters enter into a bargain for the hags' services (even if only to learn more of the procedure), use the following guidelines to determine the benefit to the character.
>- **Ability Enhancement**. If engaging in a bargain to enhance physical or mental acuity, the character chooses one ability. The score for that ability increases by 2, as does the character's maximum for that score.
>- **Physical Transformation**. A character bargaining with the hags can choose to change their race, sex, or appearance in any way they desire. The character retains their ability scores and class features, but changes their racial traits if applicable.
>- **Youth**. A character who bargains for youth has their age reduced to one year older than the standard for adulthood (as noted in the traits for the character's race).
>All such benefits last no longer than a year, and they end immediately if the painting of the character created by the hags is destroyed. If a character keeps their painting for a year or renounces the bargain, you can decide what effect the curse brings about. A cursed character also gains the following flaw, which suppresses any conflicting personality trait the character already possesses: "My appearance and how others perceive me is of the utmost importance to me."

##### Temple Locations

###### T1. Lobby
>The double doors open to the sound of a bell. Beyond the doors is a large lobby, the air heavy with the scent of fresh lotus. A desk stands at the center of the room, holding neatly piled papers and fresh-cut lotus in a vase. A dark-haired man in fine clothes stands up from behind the desk as he sees you.
>"Welcome, friends, to the Restful Lotus. Freshen yourselves in our luxurious bathhouse. Or perhaps you'd enjoy a massage? Haircut? A shave or pedicure? Oh! Road-tired feet simply cry out for comfort! Whatever your pleasure, I am here to serve."

The lobby is staffed by the human-disguised cambion Saeth. He greets the characters warmly and is happy to explain the treatments and services on offer (as noted in the "Relaxing at the Restful Lily" sidebar). If the characters aren't interested in the Restful Lily's services at present, he encourages them to look around. In any event, as soon as he is able to do so, he leaves the characters to their own devices and slips away to inform one of the hags about the party's arrival before returning to his desk. The characters are free to explore the temple on their own at this point.

>[!info]+ Relaxing at the Restful Lotus
>The Temple of the Restful Lotus offers many services and treatments that characters in search of rest and respite can make use of. This feature of the place can allow the characters to socialize with the NPCs in residence - or can provide opportunities for the coven's minions to attack them while their guard is down. Health services at the temple include the following:
>- Entry to the bathhouse costs 5 gp per person and includes the use of the enchanted baths, a comfortable robe, and a private changing room with a lockable trunk to store weapons and equipment.
>- Lodging for visitors who want to stay overnight at the temple is available at a cost of 4 gp per person. Meals cost 5 sp, and the lounge offers a wide range of beverages.
>- Characters can enjoy a haircut, a shave, or a waxing for 2 gp, 1 gp, or 10 gp, respectively.
>- Massages can be booked for 20 gp and last for an hour.
>- A manicure and pedicure costs 2 sp. The pedicure might incur an additional fee depending on the cleanliness of the customer's feet.

###### T2. Changing Rooms
>A corridor beyond the lobby runs between two rows of curtained cubicles, where guests can change out of traveling clothes and armor. Each cubicle contains a wooden stool, two white robes hanging on hooks, and a large wooden trunk with a lock.

If the characters pay to enter the baths or want to enjoy any of the other facilities, they are asked to change and store their weapons and equipment here. One robe of each pair is sized for Medium characters, while the other fits Small characters. Saeth gives a character a numbered key that corresponds to that character's cubicle and trunk. He carries a master key that opens all the trunks. As an action, a character can try to pick the lock on a trunk using thieves' tools, doing so with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, or force open a trunk with a successful DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check.

###### T3. Lounge
>Large cushioned chairs are set around this open space. Calming music fills the air, which carries a floral scent. A bar takes up one corner of the room, alongside shelves of expensive wines and spirits and baskets of fresh fruit. Two tables stand along one wall, each set up as a manicure and pedicure station with nail files, clippers, and bottles of nail varnish.

The lounge is watched over by two members of the staff, who serve drinks to the guests and perform other mundane tasks asked of them. Both are disguised scarecrows. The music is a permanent auditory illusion. During the day, the hag Dread Morgan is often here in the guise of the moon elf Morganna, talking to other guests and trying to convince likely prospects to indulge in the temple's "special treatments." She takes notice of the characters and welcomes them, playing the part of a gracious host while she tries to learn as much about them as possible.

###### T4. Garden
>An iron fence overgrown with ivy surrounds this small garden. An earthen path weaves between a scattering of trees, flower bushes, and stone benches. Various iron weights, wooden poles, and heavy sacks are strewn about the place.

In the guise of Azirssa, one of the elf sisters, Vile Sazha uses the garden as a place to exercise and torment guests with physical training. One of the trees in the garden is an awakened tree under her control, which she uses in her workouts and which defends her if she is attacked. When the characters arrive, a few other guests of the temple might be here, looking exhausted and clutching aching limbs while the disguised hag sarcastically congratulates them on doing their best.

**Azirssa's Workouts**. Any character who wants to can join in one of the hag's workouts. If any characters look particularly unfit or scrawny, Vile Sazha singles them out and tries to goad them into joining in, offering them a magic potion if they can complete three activities. A character can give up, ending a workout activity at any time. The three activities are as follows:
- **Squats**. To complete this activity, a character must perform three sets of continuous squats and succeed on three incrementally harder Constitution checks-DC 10, DC 13, and DC 16, respectively. A character who fails a check has disadvantage on the next Constitution check they make as part of this activity. A character who fails three checks in a row must finish a short or long rest before attempting this activity again.
- **Tug-of-War**. To complete this activity, a character must stay on their feet in a tug-of-war against the awakened tree. Have the character make DC 16 Strength (Athletics) checks until a check either fails by 5 or more or succeeds. In the former case, the character falls prone and takes 3 (ld6) bludgeoning damage from being pulled to the ground by the tree. In the latter case, the character wins the tug-of-war. In either case, the contest ends.
- **Chain Skipping**. To complete this activity, a character must succeed on three DC 13 Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, representing their attempt to stay on their feet while they try to jump over a heavy metal chain being spun by Vile Sazha and the awakened tree. If a check fails, the character is knocked off balance, and the DC for the next check becomes 15. If a check fails by 5 or more, the character is also struck by the chain and takes 7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage.

**Treasure**. If a character completes all three workout activities, Azirssa begrudgingly gives them a potion of giant strength (hill) as a reward. If more than one character completes all three activities, Vile Sazha gives the potion to the character who had the fewest failed checks or the one she likes best (a purely subjective choice on her part).

###### T5. Bath and Hot Spring
>A floor of polished white marble surrounds a large central pool of steaming turquoise water in this large, open-air bath. Stone pillars stand along the outside wall, sculpted with relief carvings of an impossibly angel. Between the pillars, frosted windows diffuse the light from outside through the mist that hangs in the air.

This bathhouse is built around a natural hot spring. The pool is 10 feet deep, and its magically infused waters grant several benefits. Water removed from the pool loses its magic in 10 minutes.

**Hot Spring**. A creature that spends at least 1 hour in the bath gains the benefit of a greater restoration spell (the creature decides which of the spell's effects is bestowed on it). A creature can benefit from this property of the pool only once per month. Beyond the effect of the spell, the water causes a creature's skin to appear healthier and younger, tones down the appearance of scars and burns, and helps to regrow lost hair.

A fey creature called a naiad is bound to this spring in the same way that a dryad maintains a connection to a tree. The naiad, Cyrena, came to an understanding with Sylvarie when the elf founded the temple: the naiad was allowed access to the pool and its magic in exchange for swearing to protect the waters.

Cyrena can cause the water to harm creatures of her choice as though it were an equivalent volume of acid. Currently, she has made the water harmful to the hags and their minions, and she can make it harmful to characters who offend or threaten her. Any such creature that enters the pool or starts its turn immersed in it takes 11 (2d10) acid damage.

Cyrena knows the hags and their minions for what they truly are. Because the water of the pool is harmful to them, they have been forced to leave the naiad alone, even as they plot to destroy her. Cyrena doesn't know what happened to Sylvarie, but even after many years, she is sad about her friend's disappearance. Her nervousness around other creatures has prevented the naiad from asking directly for aid. She perceives dangerous-looking creatures as servants of the hags. If she believes a character to be pure of heart or an ally of nature, she begs them to help her discover what happened to Sylvarie.

###### T6. Kitchen
>This kitchen has long counters and numerous shelves full of pots, pans, and utensils. Metal racks stuffed with herbs, flowers, fruits, and vegetables hang from the ceiling.

By day, Auntie Greenbones is usually here, in disguise as the blind wood elf Greensong with her faithful hound Morty at her side. She prepares delicious-looking but tainted meals for guests of the temple, often slipping in putrid ingredients or traces of poison. Any guest who suffers the effect of a tainted meal is told that they are feeling toxins and impurities leaving their body as a result of the healthy living the temple promotes.

The hag keeps her awful ingredients hidden in a secret compartment in the kitchen cupboards, which can be found with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check (see "Treasure" below). If her stash is discovered, Greensong feigns innocence and says, untruthfully, that the drow aesthetician Ilmar (see area T7) was seen poking around in the kitchen a few days ago.

**Treasure**. Auntie Greenbones's stash includes beholder tears, ground unicorn hoof, chimera vomit, and other foul reagents of your choice. These ingredients are worth a total of 100 gp to an alchemist or a poisoner. The stash also includes a stoppered and labeled glass vial containing three doses of assassin's blood (see "Poisons" in the Dungeon Master's Guide).

###### T7. Treatment Rooms
>These adjoining chambers, dimly lit with shrouded lamps, are each furnished with a bed whose frame can be tilted and folded into different positions. Shelves and counters hold an array of perfumes, oils, and lotions, and scented candles that fill the room with a pleasantly invigorating scent.

Guests who request haircuts, shaving, waxing, or massages are tended to in these treatment rooms. Ilmar Mizzrym (CG male drow) works here as the head aesthetician of the bathhouse. He wears a simple belted silk robe and flat shoes, and speaks in a soft, hushed voice. Without armor, his AC is 12. Ilmar was a close friend of Sylvarie's years ago, but fell out of touch with her before the temple was built.

**Ilmar's Search**. Three months ago, Ilmar received a haunting vision of his old friend Sylvarie, who appeared to be in a suffering state, and appearing as though her face was being reflected in a broken mirror. Looking into his former friend's activities since they parted ways led him to the temple a month ago. Ilmar instinctively suspected that the goings-on at the bathhouse hid some dark secret and decided to investigate by posing as an aesthetician seeking employment.

Ilmar has seen through the illusions covering the hags and their minions, and he shares that knowledge if he trusts the characters (roleplaying or a successful DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion) check). He suspects that information about Sylvarie's fate can be found in the shrine or the tower, but has so far been unable to investigate those areas because the coven's minions keep a close eye on him. (The two disguised scarecrows from area T9 lurk around the guest rooms at night, and the gargoyle above the tower entrance of area T13 watches the grounds north of the bathhouse for any sign of Ilmar skulking around).

If the characters agree to help discover what happened to Sylvarie, Ilmar offers to join them, or to help by creating a distraction in the bathhouse that might give the characters a chance to slip into the tower or the shrine unnoticed.

**Treasure**. Ilmar keeps a silvered shortsword, a hand crossbow with twenty bolts, and a spell scroll of greater restoration hidden underneath the massage bed in the south treatment room. These can be discovered by any character who searches the room. He keeps a vial of oil of slipperiness hidden among the massage lotions and oils on the shelf in the north treatment room. It can be spotted with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check.

###### T8. Storage
>A silk-curtained doorway leads into a storage room piled high with crates and items on shelves. Stock and supplies for the bathhouse are kept here, including towels, robes, bed linens, bottles, and stores of grain, fruits, nuts, and salted meat.

When the characters first enter this area, one scarecrow disguised as a humanoid staff member is present, sorting supplies and arranging boxes.

###### T9. Guest Rooms
All the rooms in this area have the same basic features, plus additional contents related to their occupants. You can decide how many rooms are occupied based on how many NPCs are presently at the temple.

>This well-furnished guest room contains a comfortable bed, a sturdy chest for storage, a wall lantern, a full-length mirror, and a desk that holds small bottles of lotions and soaps.

Each guest of the temple is given a key that locks both the door and the chest, either of which can also be opened with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools or forced open with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check. The hags and Saeth each carry a master key.

During the day, two disguised scarecrows clean any unoccupied rooms. If the characters are staying here, the hags might instruct the scarecrows to "misplace" (steal) any potions, weapons, or other valuable items left in the characters' rooms.

**Working Late**. If the characters take rooms and spend one or more nights at the temple, the character who has the highest passive Wisdom (Perception) score is awakened at a time of your choice by a quiet disturbance:
>A kobold with white scales and purple eyes is fiddling with the lock on one of the guest room doors. He wears a patchwork dress and is quietly cursing and whispering.

Glitter, a tiefling spy transformed into a kobold by the hags, is working late for his masters. He is trying to fix a broken lock, though the characters might assume he is trying to break into the room by picking the lock. He has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet and doesn't need light to do his work.

Glitter immediately surrenders if confronted and tries to explain himself. If any character treats him kindly or seems to be heroic, he might tell the characters the truth of his transformation and beg their help to undo the curse. Glitter knows what happened to Sylvarie, as well as the layout of the bathhouse and the tower. He also knows that the hags store a selection of their cursed paintings in the servants' quarters in the tower (area T17).

###### T10. Ilmar's Room
>The cluttered state of this room suggests that its occupant has been staying at the temple for some time. Clothes and cosmetic products are scattered across the floor and the desk.

This room is the quarters of Ilmar Mizzrym (see area T7). A character who searches the room discovers a sack hidden in the mattress.

**Treasure**. The sack holds three diamonds (50 gp each) and a silver holy symbol of Eilistraee (25 gp), the drow god of beauty, dance, and the hunt. A chain shirt and a rapier are stored inside the room's locked chest.

###### T11. Abandoned Shrine
This former shrine to Sune has fallen into disrepair over decades of neglect. It is partially hidden behind the baths and obscured by overgrown trees and scrub. If the characters haven't already scouted the grounds, any character in the baths (area T5) who has a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 13 or higher spots the ruined stone building behind the trees. Characters who travel from the bathhouse to
the tower can easily see the shrine.

>This crumbling stone building must once have been a beautiful shrine. Engraved images of Sune are still visible on the moss-covered stones, her face gazing down on the path by which the faithful would have approached. Stone doors at the front of the shrine appear to be sealed shut by some sort of thick, clear resin. A faint inscription is still visible above them:
"Welcome, dearest ones. Come find the beauty within you."

During the day, the shrine is quiet. At night, any character moving around the shrine who has a passive Wisdom (Perception) score of 14 or higher hears what sounds like sobbing or muttering coming from within.

The door is sealed firmly, as are the shrine's four windows, and all are coated by an unnaturally resilient resin of the hags' creation. A character can open a door or window as an action, but only by forcing it with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. Any of the hags can touch an area of resin as an action, causing it to turn into slime that flows away over 1 minute.

A hole in the roof 30 feet above the statue of Sune offers another way in, and is just big enough for a Medium creature to squeeze through. One of the hags comes here at night every few days to throw down firewood and scraps of food for Sylvarie.

**Inside the Shrine**. When the characters get a good look inside the shrine, read the following:
>The interior of the shrine has the appearance of having been abandoned after some sort of terrible confrontation years ago. Broken benches with shredded cushions are overgrown by thick fungi, and four large mirrors hanging on the walls have been shattered, leaving the stone floor covered in shards of broken glass.

A grime-encrusted statue of Sune stands against the far wall. The statue's expression might once have suggested smiling laughter, but streaks of dirt now make it appear as though she is weeping. Behind the statue, a staircase descends into darkness. The broken glass covering the floor imposes disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to move through the area. If any creature without footwear or other protection moves across the broken glass, treat the area as covered in caltrops.

###### T12. Sacred Pool
The stairs behind the statue in the shrine lead down to a dimly lit chamber.
>A soft white glow rises from a square pool set into the floor of this chamber. Torn cushions, rugs, tapestries, and clothing have been piled in one corner as a makeshift bed, while twigs and scraps of deadfall form a simple campfire nearby.

Sylvarie has been transformed into a medusa and spends most of her time in this chamber. The glowing light is produced by an object at the bottom of the pool (see "Treasure" below). The pool is also home to a water weird that has been Sylvarie's only companion for the many years of her incarceration. The water weird fights alongside her if it perceives that she is threatened.

**Sylvarie's Curse**. Sylvarie Silversong was a devoted priest of Sune who shared her knowledge and uplifted others to help them realize their own worth. Sadly, her devotion to others masked the moon elf's own self-doubt, which made her feel that she wasn't worthy enough to be a priest of an angel of love and beauty.

The hags used her insecurity to manipulate and corrupt Sylvarie ten years ago. Concealing their true nature, they enticed the priest into a dark bargain - and a terrible curse. After a year, the painting created of Sylvarie that had boosted her esteem transformed her into a medusa. When she tried to strike back against the hags, they sealed her in the shrine, hoping that its great mirrors would turn her
to stone. For fear of petrifying herself, Sylvarie destroyed the shrine's mirrors.

Sylvarie attacks characters who descend into this area, believing they have been sent by the hags to torment her. A character can use an action to try to convince Sylvarie to stand down, first by making the party's good intentions clear and next by succeeding on a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If a truce is achieved, Sylvarie blindfolds herself with a strip of cloth so that the characters aren't petrified by her gaze accidentally. She removes the blindfold if she is forced to defend herself.

The curse that transformed Sylvarie doesn't end until her portrait in area T18 is destroyed. The painting's destruction has the added benefit of restoring Sylvarie's neutral good alignment, whereupon she offers to do everything she can to help the party rid the temple of the evil creatures infesting it. If the characters destroyed Sylvarie's painting before coming here, they encounter Sylvarie in her true form: a neutral good moon elf priest who is not wearing armor (AC 10). In this case, she is weeping by the pool and grateful to be free of the hags' curse.

`encounter: 1: Medusa`

**Treasure**. Submerged in the pool is the golden lotus flower that Miraela requested.

###### T13 - T18. Tower
>A finely crafted stone tower rises among the trees not far from the bathhouse. A statue of a sharp-featured winged elf crouches above the front door, whose bright red surface is decorated with golden swirls.

The door is locked. The elf statue over the door is a gargoyle servant of the hags, wrapped in illusion magic. It watches the door but makes no move unless the characters go inside, whereupon it flies off to report to one of the hags.

###### T13. Tower Foyer
>This foyer has a central spiral staircase leading up. The staircase is flanked by two closed doors, each one set in the middle of a stone wall. A thin, weak-looking dragonborn is feebly trying to sweep the floor here with a well-worn broom.

The cursed dragonborn, Gorba Daardenrian, is so weak that she can barely hold her broom. When she sees the characters, she desperately tries to make them leave so she doesn't get into trouble. In the time she has spent at the temple, she has learned what happened to Sylvarie and knows the layout of the tower, but she will not share that information unless her fear of the characters can be overcome with roleplaying, a successful DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) check, or suitable magic.

Both the doors in this area are locked, and Gorba does not have the keys to them.

###### T14. Saeth's Room
Saeth carries the key that opens the locked door to this room.

>This luxurious room has a large bed covered with rich silk sheets. A wardrobe and a dresser with a mirror stand against the walls.

The dresser has clothes scattered across it but holds nothing of value.

**Treasure**. Characters who search the wardrobe find a suit of scale mail armor customized for a wearer with a tail, and a pair of shortswords ornately scribed with Infernal glyphs (50 gp each).

###### T15. Tower Studio
The three hags carry the only keys to this room.

>Magical light illuminates this room, which has an oversized chair, heavy curtains covering the windows, and a large, ornate wooden chest.

Any characters who requested special magical treatments from one of the three sisters are brought to this room. The other sisters arrive in a few minutes, and they explain that all three working together can guarantee a greater possibility that the magic sought by the character can be channeled successfully. Characters who allow the sisters to work their magic can watch them labor together to create a cursed painting.

**Tools and Supplies**. The wooden chest is locked. As an action, a character can try to pick the lock using thieves' tools, doing so with a successful DC 18 Dexterity check, or break open the chest with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check. Inside the chest are the materials the hags use for creating cursed paintings, including three blank canvases and paints infused with demon ichor. A character who examines the canvas determines that it is made of humanoid skin with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine or Perception) check. Physically touching the canvas grants advantage on the check. The paints appear normal unless examined closely by a character who has proficiency in the Arcana or Religion skill, whereupon their fiendish nature becomes clear.

**Treasure**. The canvases are worth 200 gp each and the paints are worth 100 gp in total, though finding a buyer for such vile materials might be a challenge.

###### T16. Tower Kitchen
>A dank scent fills the air in this well-used kitchen. Three tables stand in the room, one of which is covered in various vegetables and strange-looking cuts of meat. A wood stove burns brightly against the far wall, and a statue of a winged elf stands in the corner, its face carved into an open-mouthed smile.

An elderly dwarf stands before the stove, his hands trembling as he tries to lift a heavy iron pot. This kitchen is normally used by the coven's scarecrow minions to prepare meals for the hags and Saeth, but it now has a new servant in Falthrax Loderr, the cursed Sharn acolyte. The central staircase leads to the upper floors, and an unlocked door leads to area T17.

Falthrax uses the commoner stat block and panics at the sight of intruders. He warns the characters that they should leave immediately while trying to appear loyal to the hags for the benefit of the gargoyle disguised as the elf statue, which has been placed here by the hags to watch over the coven's latest victim.

If the characters try to go upstairs or ask too many questions of Falthrax, the gargoyle attacks. If it is reduced to half its hit points or fewer, it flees by smashing out a window and tries to alert the hags. If the gargoyle's threat is ended, Falthrax breaks down, revealing his identity if the characters haven't already sussed it out. He is desperate to have the curse undone so he can return to Sharn. Having just arrived at the temple, Falthrax can describe only the studio where his portrait was painted (area T15) and the room where he sleeps along with the other curse victims presently held at the temple (area T17).

###### T17. Victims' Quarters
>Piles of straw and moth-eaten blankets have been set up in this area as rough beds, and broken furniture and garbage is scattered around. In contrast to the squalor, four fine paintings hang along the curved outer wall. Each one is hauntingly beautiful - but also strangely unnerving to look upon.

Three of the victims of the hags' curse sleep and eat in this miserable chamber, forced to stare at the paintings that have caused their downfall. The fourth painting is the one that was done for Sylvarie Silversong years before. Each painting depicts its victim as the person they sought to become through their bargain with the hags:
- A brawny, female, silver-scaled dragonborn warrior engaged in battle (Gorba Daardenrian)
- A tall male tiefling with sparkling violet eyes wearing many fine jewels (Glitter)
- A youthful male shield dwarf dancing at a feast (Falthrax Loderr)
- A radiant female moon elf gazing upon her own reflection (Sylvarie)
If the characters don't yet know the significance of the paintings but have met Glitter in area T9, Gorba in area T13, or Falthrax in area T16, any character who studies the paintings recognizes that the paintings depict those individuals.

###### T18. Hags' Lair
>The air grows cooler as you near the top of the tower, and it carries a putrid scent. What might once have been an elegant bedroom has long since been soiled and ruined. Murals of Sune that lined the walls have been defaced with dirt and filth.
>Three beds are covered in moldy blankets and animal furs, including one topped by a canopy of giant bones and reeking, untanned hides. Empty crates are scattered throughout the room like furniture, holding broken weapons, moldering clothing, and other odd objects.

The top floor of the tower has been turned into the lair of the Fetid Gaze. Each of the three hags has its own disgusting bed, and the strange objects that fill the crates are shared by all.

**Glyph of Warding**. Scratched into the floor at the top of the stairs is a glyph created by a *glyph of warding* spell. The hags use this glyph to eliminate intruders. It can be detected with a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check and triggers when any creature except the hags or their minions passes over it. When triggered, the glyph splashes acid in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on it - big enough to splatter the whole room and the central staircase, top to bottom. This sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 22 (5d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.

**Dark Mementos**. The objects in the crates are souvenirs claimed from the hags' victims over ten years, including weapons, clothing, personal effects, tools, letters, trinkets, and more.

**Treasure**. Most of the hags' mementos are worthless, but a search of the room turns up a spell scroll of clairvoyance in a leather scroll case that has so far escaped destruction.

 - [ ]  **Conclusion and Cursed Paintings**

Once the threat of the hags and their servants is dealt with, the characters have a chance to rectify the dark deeds done at the temple. Destroying the four portraits in area T17 frees Gorba Daardenrian, Glitter, Falthrax Loderr, and Sylvarie Silversong from the hags' curse. Gorba and Glitter are eternally grateful to the characters and might become lifelong allies of the party, at your discretion.

**Falthrax's Resolve.** With the curse lifted, Falthrax Loderr is ready to return to Sharn. The experience of having sought and then rejected a magical return to youth has taught him much about focusing on the positive aspects of his life and his service to knowledge. Though his struggles aren't over, a new inner resolve promises to leave him in a better position to face those struggles.

**Sylvarie's Decision**. Years under the effect of the hags' curse have left Sylvarie Silversong a changed person. As you see fit, she might be determined to restore the Temple of the Restful Lily to its former stature, refurbishing the shrine and making the site an even stronger place for the worship of Sune. Alternatively, she might decide that the temple holds too many dark memories for her, and that it should be up to others - perhaps the characters - to take charge of restoring the site. Either way, Sylvarie is grateful to the characters for what they've done and becomes a friend to the party for life.

###### Destroying the Paintings
The paintings' magic persists even if the hags are killed, and destroying a painting is the only way to end its curse. Any creature that studies all three parts of the procedure for creating a cursed painting knows that the painting is impervious to damage unless its magic can be momentarily disrupted. Without full knowledge of the procedure, it takes 1 hour of studying a painting and a successful DC 18
Intelligence (Arcana) check to determine this fact.

A creature can use an action to try to destroy a painting, doing so with a successful DC 18 Strength (Athletics) check. On a failed check, the creature takes 14 (4d6) psychic damage. Any character who uses an action to examine the painting knows, with a successful DC 18 Intelligence (Arcana) check, that the painting can also be destroyed by splashing it with fresh blood from a celestial. A compulsion placed on each cursed creature prevents it from trying to destroy a cursed painting.

#### 4: Confrontation with Aeon

 - [ ]  **???**

Before the players can get back to the Immeasurable Market to deliver the golden lotus flower, they are intercepted by Aeon, Verity's father. He is incredibly disappointed that Verity has returned to Syrania in their fallen state, and will require that they leave immediately. The party may choose to talk their way through the situation or sneak away somehow. Aeon will know their exact location on the plane at all times, but won't choose to confront them again until they take their next action, like delivering the lotus.

 - [ ]  **???**

Maybe Aeon is the one to hand over the Platinum Scarf? Why?

#### 5: Conclusion and Return

 - [ ]  **The Platinum Scarf**



 - [ ]  **Return and New Threat**

When the players return to Arcanix, they should somehow be introduced to Empress [[Corrine ir'Wyrnarn]], and the conflict brewing between the green dragons of the Eldeen Reaches (allied with Corrine) and the gold dragons of Thrane, with Aundair being the middle ground that's sturing up the conflict. Maybe the Empress is visiting the University for some reason?

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The Silver Dragons are associated with Syrania.
 - [ ]  

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Use Valmoc to get the party to Arcanix, where he went to recently when he left the group to see his old friend Professor Stone. The Professor has discovered a powerful arcane signature coming from the plane of Syrania, via the Gate of Xabra that he maintains.
* When they get there, have Valmoc fly off to The University, where he will be studying as much arcane knowledge as possible to pass on to Yllosavax.
* Verity should be confronted by the merchant she stole from in the Market, and asked to pay up. Since she's likely not willing to hand over a soul, the merchant offers an alternative - to retrieve some rare merchandise from a place known as the Undercloud. If she doesn't agree, then the merchant threatens to turn her over to her father.
	* One item is a golden lotus flower, which contains the soul of an enlightened mortal sage.
* Otherwise, focus on social encounters and maybe political intrigue here.
* Also adapt "The Price of Beauty" from Candlekeep Mysteries (pg 75)

### References

