 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* A temple in the depths of the Moonsword Jungle of Aerenal is rumored to house a lost [[Moonblade (Vestige)]] from one of the ancient elven houses. But this powerful weapon is protected by incredibly strong monsters.

### Characters and Locations

* **Elyon Winslow**

* **[[Shae Cairdal]]**

### Scenes and Situations

##### 1: Elyon's Challenge

 - [ ]  **The Jungle's Edge**

The players navigate the dense, shadowy outskirts of the Moonsword Jungle, encountering natural obstacles and signs of the jungle's magical nature. Their path leads to the temple's hidden entrance, guarded by Elyon.

Two DC 15 Survival checks will lead the party out of the jungle, with any failures resulting in a random encounter from the table below. If the moonkite transports a player somewhere, roll on the Planar Locations table.

`dice: [[2-04. The Legacy of the Moonblade#^moonblade-encounter]]`

 - [ ]  **Elyon's Test**

Thana's uncle, Elyon, emerges as the temple's guardian. Recognizing Thana, he challenges the party to a combat test to prove they are ready to face the temple's dangers and worthy of the Moonblade's legacy. Elyon uses non-lethal tactics, aiming to test rather than harm.

`encounter: 1: Deathguard Warden`

##### 2: Central Chamber

The temple is circular, and composed of a large central chamber shaped like a full moon surrounded by an outer chamber which is composed of two half moon chambers on either side and a larger square chamber to the north. In the center of the large central chamber is a still fountain (the Moon Font). The chamber to the north contains an altar, and is the site of the final battle with the temple's guardian - a Young Moonstone Dragon.

>As you step into an expansive chamber, your gaze is drawn to a serene stone pool at its heart, illuminated by a shaft of moonlight from above. Surrounding the pool, twelve large, ornately carved tiles rest on the edge, each depicting a moon of a different size and color. Radiating from the Moon Font are twelve short hallways, like spokes on a wheel, and at the end of each, an alcove in the floor stands empty, awaiting something to fill it.

 - [ ]  **The Moon Font**

A large circular still fountain is the central feature of this large chamber.  Anyone drinking from the font transforms into a random lycanthrope until the next dark of the moon. 1) Wolf, 2) Boar, 3) Rat, 4) Stag, 5) Bear, 6) Spider.

A dozen large tiles are placed on the perimeter of the font, each depicting a moon of a different size and color.

 - [ ]  **Moon Tile Puzzle**

Twelve short hallways radiate out from the central chamber, each terminating with an empty alcove on the floor, which could hold something like a large tile. The twelve tiles on the font need to be placed in the alcoves, but in the correct order, with Zarantyr being placed in the north alcove and the moons radiating in order around the room from there.

Any incorrectly placed tiles result in a beam of moonlight striking the player placing the tile, casting *[[moonbeam]]* on the area.

When the tiles are placed in the correct order, two doors open on each end of the chamber (at 3:00 and 9:00) leading to the Outer Chambers.

Around the room are scattered several scrolls which outline an ancient Elven chant in four parts. Each piece can be found with an Investigation or Perception check, with the DC starting at 15 and increasing by 3 (maxing out at 24). Alternatively, if a player asks how much they know about the order of the moons, they can perform a History check, with the same DCs, giving the same number of correctly ordered moons as below.

>"Zarantyr's storm, a pearly gleam,  
Olarune's gaze, an orange dream.  
Therendor's grace, in palest gray,  
Guides the lost upon their way."

>"Eyre's forge, in silver's light,  
Dravago's chill, winter's bite.  
Nymm's crown, in yellow bright,  
Leads the path through darkest night."

>"Lharvion's eye, a watcher keen,  
Barrakas shines, in white so clean.  
Rhaan's pages, a pale blue seen,  
Whisper secrets, 'twixt and between."

>"Sypheros's shadow, a smoky veil,  
Aryth's fire, with orange-red sail.  
Vult guards the end, in pockmarked gray,  
Marks the close, and a new day."

##### 3: Outer Chambers

 - [ ]  **Whispered Secrets** (Left Chamber)

The players enter a hall where their movements and spells echo unnaturally. Shadows flit across the room, whispering constantly; however, some whispers seek to mislead or confuse. Three doors can be seen, in addition to the door that brought them here, but there's no indication of which one is the correct exit. Players must discern which whispers to trust to find the way through, relying on a DC 15 Insight check to find the correct exit. Success results in the players finding the door to The Moonlit Sanctum, while failure results in them ending up in a random location - roll a d4, with one through three resulting in the location in the Planar Locations table, and a four resulting in the Moonlit Sanctum below.

Perception checks can be used to collect additional information from the shadows. Allude to Moonstone Dragon fight later, and subduing it rather than killing it.

 - [ ]  **The Moonlit Garden** (Right Chamber)

This area is almost totally covered by a dense canopy, and plants cover the ground as well. The moon can barely be seen in the sky above the garden, and effectively no moonlight pierced the vale, leading to dim light.

>A grey humanoid wearing a dark tattered cloak and worn armor descends on glimmering, mothlike wings. In its hands it wields a halberd tipped with a cold light. Its black lidless eyes are filled with envy and sorrow.

`encounter: 1: Lunarian`

##### 4: The Moonlit Sanctum

 - [ ]  **The Moonstone Dragon**

As the final guardian, a Young Moonstone Dragon, influenced by the temple's magic, challenges the players. Victory requires them to subdue the dragon without destroying it, proving their worthiness to wield the Moonblade.

##### 5: The Moonblade's Legacy

 - [ ]  **The Blade's Awakening**

Upon defeating the guardians, the Moonblade reveals itself, resonating with Thana's presence. As she approaches, it awakens, and her parents' spirits communicate through it, offering blessings, revealing hidden truths about her heritage, and the blade's powers.

 - [ ]  **A New Guardian**

With the Moonblade in hand, Thana experiences a vision of the temple's past protectors, including a forewarning of a looming threat that seeks the blade's power. The spirits of her parents bestow upon her the role of the new guardian, hinting at future adventures and responsibilities.

 - [ ]  **Plot Twist**

As the players leave the temple, Elyon re-appears and challenges the party again. But this time for real. He believes that Thana is not actually worthy to wield the Moonblade (and only helped so she could get it for him), as she is now full of evil and a threat to the family's legacy.

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Monsters (CR 8): Possessed Pillar (ToB1, CR 7), Young Moonstone Dragon (FToD, CR 8), Lunarchidna (ToB2, CR 2), Lunarian (ToB2, CR 5), Moonkite (ToB2, CR 5)

| dice: 1d6 | Encounter                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | `encounter: 1: Moonkite`                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 2         | `encounter: 1: Lunarchidna Greater`                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 3         | `encounter: 2: Lunarchidna Lesser`                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 4         | A swarm of insects surrounds and follows the party, not dangerous but makes all tasks more difficult due to buzzing, biting and making it difficult to see.                                                             |
| 5         | You see a brilliantly colored bird flit through the trees ahead, cawing and crying through the jungle air. It lands on a branch and screeches at you, before flying off.                                                |
| 6         | A spider monkey jumps on the shoulder of a party member pawing at their backpack for food, in return for food the monkey returns later that day and drops a polished stone out of which a frowning face can be glanced. |
^moonblade-encounter


| dice: 1d3 | Planar Location                          |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| 1         | The Moonlit Vale (Thelanis)              |
| 2         | The Twilight Forest (Lamannia)           |
| 3         | Monastery of the Moons (Ring of Siberys) |
^moonblade-planes

### References

