 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* Deep in an unnamed forest exists a glade rumored to hold great power. Legend tells that the dragon Vvaraak once spread druidic teachings from this glade, over sixteen thousand years ago. Although not as holy a site as Vvaraak’s Cave, which lies somewhere in the Shadow Marches, the Mystic Glade still bears the touch of the Prophecy.
* Vvaraak's Cave is the former home of the black dragon Vvaraak who created the Gatekeeper druids, and is now the central base of the Order of the Onyx Scale (Dragon Orcs) and the black dragon Moar’donn as their leader.
* A clan of kobolds has moved in to the mouth of the cave, drawn by sightings of black dragons, and continually skirmish with the orcs who live deeper inside.

### Characters and Locations

* **Moar’donn** (CE male adult black dragon). Leader of the Order of the Onyx Scale.
* **Calcryx** (CE female young black dragon). Young black dragon who was taken (or liberated, in their view) by the orcs from the kobolds.
* **Meepo** (male kobold). Keeper of Dragons among the kobold tribe.
* **Yusdrayl** (female kobold). Leader of the kobold tribe.
* **Erky Timbers** (male gnome acolyte). Adventurer?

* **Mystic Glade**
* **Vvaraak's Cave**

### Scenes and Situations

##### 1: Mystic Glade

 - [ ]  **Approaching the Mystic Glade**

* Paths twist through the forest, but none lead directly to the Mystic Glade. The trails fork, branch, and double back. The thick forest canopy blocks out the stars, affording only an occasional glimpse of the sky, which makes navigation difficult. A pilgrim can find the way to the glade with a successful DC 20 Survival check. Forest creatures and wild animals unerringly confront travelers with ill intentions or greedy hearts, disrupting their progress. One path, in no way discernible from the others that wind through the forest, opens up into a shadowy glade. A group of three majestic trees with metallic bark stand at the northern edge of the glade, a bubbling brook trickling from their roots.
* The Mystic Glade, suffused so often with druidic magic while the Scaled Apostate conducted her lessons, bears an aura of nature’s power still. Creatures in the glade cast druid spells at +1 caster level. No matter the time of day outside, within the glade it’s always twilight. The stars, moons, and the Ring of Siberys seem twice as large and bright when viewed from here, and the heavenly bodies constantly rearrange themselves in patterns that resemble dragonmarks.
* Any player spending any amount of time studying the patterns in the sky can roll an Intelligence (Arcana) check. Starting with DC 8 (revealing one fact), a new fact is revealed for every +2, from the "Mystic Glade Prophesies" table.
* The glade measures 80 feet across and is almost perfectly circular. Grass and wildflowers cover the unusually flat and even ground. Though verdant, the grass is rough and uneven, and the wildflowers grow in wildly colored clumps. A constant soft breeze stirs the flowers, shaping and reshaping their dancing heads into Prophecy marks.

 - [ ]  **The Three Trees**

* Three immense bronzewood trees stand in the northern part of the glade, non-native to this region but flourishing. Whatever the season, the trees’ leaves display a variety of fall colors, and some hues not seen in nature. The leaves rustle in the ever-present breeze, and whispers suffuse the glade, vague sentences that tease the edge of hearing and speak of destiny.
* The bronzewood trees are worth a fortune, but powerful magic guards them. Anyone who tries to harvest the towering plants faces three angry treants when the bronzewoods animate. Gatekeeper druids who serve the order well and selflessly might sometimes be allowed to take a branch from the bronzewood trees to fashion a weapon or piece of armor; such branches come easily away from the trees and regrow in 24 hours.

`encounter: 3: Treant`

 - [ ]  **The Brook**

* The bubbling brook that erupts from the bronzewoods’ roots is always fresh and pure. Tiny pebbles on the brook’s bed constantly shift and rearrange in the current, forming mystic patterns. The brook dwindles and sinks into the ground shortly after it leaves the glade. Anyone who drinks from the brook gains the benefit of *[[cure wounds]]* (5th level) and *[[remove curse]]*. The water loses this property if removed from the brook. Any evil characters attempting to drink from the brook are attacked by the bronzewood treants.

##### 2: Kobold Den

 - [ ]  **1. Old Approach**
>The masonry walls of this twenty-foot-wide hall are in poor repair. The far end has collapsed, filling the southern section with rubble. The western wall is in much better shape than the other walls, and it holds a stone door with a rearing dragon carved in relief on it. The door has a single keyhole, situated in the rearing dragon's open mouth.

**Dragon Door**. The door that is carved to look like a dragon has a mechanical lock as well as an *arcane lock* spell cast on it. The Strength (Athletics) check to defeat the arcane lock is DC 30, and the Dexterity check to bypass the magical lock using thieves' tools is DC 25. Casting a knock spell on the door suppresses the magical lock for 10 minutes, lowering the DCs by 10 during that time. The mechanical lock remains intact if the magical lock is bypassed, requiring another knock spell or the use of the key. The key, which bypasses the magical lock as well as the mechanical one, is in area 21.

 - [ ]  **2. Gallery of Forlorn Notes**
>As the door opens, a hissing noise and a puff of dust around the door indicate that the chamber beyond has been sealed for ages. Dust, long undisturbed, covers every surface in this large gallery. The air here is stale. Three alcoves are on the north wall, and one is on the south wall. Each alcove contains a dust-covered stone pedestal with a fist-sized crystalline globe resting on it. The globes in the northern alcoves are cracked and dark, but the globe in the southern alcove glows with a soft blue light. Faint tinkling notes issue from it.

If a character moves within 5 feet of the lit globe, brooding music begins to play throughout the area, and the sound carries into areas 6, 8, and 9 if the doors to those areas are open. Any creature that can hear the music must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, a creature is immune to the music of the globe for 24 hours. On a failed save, a creature becomes charmed and, while charmed in this way, can take only the Dash action and move toward area 3. The effect on a creature ends once that creature reaches the floor beyond the pit trap in area 3. If an affected creature is prevented from moving to area 3, the creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a successful save. The effect ends on its own 1 minute after the creature can no longer hear the music. A creature can escape the music by being on the other side of a closed door that leads to the gallery, or by vacating the area (including adjacent rooms) where the music is audible.
The globe has AC 10 and 10 hit points. If it is attacked or handled, the music becomes louder, audible in areas 4 and 10 if the doors to those areas are open. The DC of the Wisdom saving throw then increases to 20. If the globe is reduced to 0 hit points or taken from the room, it cracks and goes dark and silent. It no longer functions.

 - [ ]  **3. Pressure Plate**
>The air is stale in this twenty-foot-long corridor, which leads to another closed stone door.

**Arrow Trap**. Each time any weight is placed on any part of the center 10-foot-square section of the corridor, a mechanical pressure plate is activated, triggering a trap. An arrow fires from above the western door at the creature who triggered the trap: +5 to hit, 5 (1d10) piercing damage.
With a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check, a character can deduce the presence of the pressure plate from variations in the mortar and stone around it, compared to the surrounding floor. Wedging an iron spike or some other similarly sized and sturdy object under the pressure plate prevents it from activating.

 - [ ]  **4. Dragon Riddle**
Dust fills this hall like a layer of gray snow. In the rounded northern end of the chamber stands a ten-foot tall sculpture of a coiled dragon carved from red-veined black marble.

**Dragon Sculpture**. If a creature moves within 5 feet of the dragon statue, a magic mouth spell causes the dragon to utter a riddle in Common (to viewers, it seems as though the stone jaws are actually moving). The dragon's riddle is as follows:
>We come at night without being fetched; we disappear by day without being stolen. What are we?
(Answer: stars)

**Secret Door**. A secret door in the western wall leads to area 10. Finding the door requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. Under the scrutiny of detect magic, the door radiates a faint aura of abjuration magic. The door comes open, pivoting into the room, only if someone speaks the answer to the riddle. Once the door is opened, it closes on its own 1 minute later, although any obstruction placed in the doorway prevents it from doing so. The door can be opened from the western side with a simple push.

 - [ ]  **5. Honor Guard**
>Dust cloaks the contents of this twenty-foot-wide hall. Six alcoves line the walls, three to the north and three to the south. Each alcove except the southwest one holds a humanoid figure carved of red-veined white marble. The figures resemble tall elves in plate armor. A stone archway at the west end of the hall opens into a wide room from which greenish light glows. A dark pit is situated before the archway.

**Southwest Alcove**. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals that the dust in the room is disturbed by tracks that start in the southwest alcove, though the tracks are filled in enough that the disturbance must have occurred dozens of years ago. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check enables a character to determine that the tracks were made by tiny humanoid feet with claw-like nails. They begin in the center of the alcove, move west toward the pit, and then disappear into the pit. A character who enters the pit to follow the tracks must make another successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check to pick up the trail again.

**Spiked Pit**. The pit is 10 feet deep, and its bottom is filled with spikes that deal 11 (2d10) piercing damage to a creature that falls in, as well as falling damage. The walls of the pit are rough, and they offer handholds to climbers. Area 12 begins on its far side.

**Creature**. A quasit named Jot was bound in the southwestern alcove an age ago to guard the contents of the sarcophagus in area 12. It was in suspended animation until a few decades ago, and it now waits on the other side of the arch just out of sight in area 12. Jot is alerted by any light source the characters have, so it can prepare for them. (If the characters have no light source and are stealthy, Jot might not become aware of them.) The quasit darts out of its hiding place and attacks the first creature that climbs out of the pit on the western side.

**Development**. Jot doesn't fight to the death. If it takes any damage, or if more than one character attacks it, Jot laughs and says, "You broke the binding. My watch over the dragonpriest is over!" It uses its next action to become invisible. It then turns into a bat and flies along the 10-foot-high ceiling across the pit. If Jot escapes, the characters might see it again. It knows that death on the Material Plane means a return to the Abyss, so it prefers to harass the characters while they are otherwise engaged, laughing and mocking as it does so. Secret Door. Finding the door on the southern wall requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. The door opens with a simple push inward.

 - [ ]  **6. Secret Room**
>Dust coats the contents of this tiny chamber, obscuring runes inscribed on the southern wall.

**Inscription**. If the southern wall is cleared of dust, I the runes are revealed to be a message in Draconic. Someone who can read the language understands it as "A dragonpriest entombed alive for transgressions of the Law still retains the honor of his position."

**Secret Door.** A secret trapdoor in the floor requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to find. The door opens by pulling it upward. It leads to a 3-footby-3-foot crawl space that connects to a similar trapdoor in area 12.

 - [ ]  **7. Tomb of a Failed Dragonpriest**
>Violet marble tiles cover the floor and walls, though all are cracked or broken, revealing rough-hewn stone beneath. Sconces are attached to the walls at each corner. One holds a torch that burns with greenish fire. A marble sarcophagus, easily nine feet long, lies in the room's center. The coffin is carved with dragon imagery, and the head of the sarcophagus resembles a dragon's head. Rusting iron clasps firmly lock down the lid.

**Torch**. The greenish fire is a continual flame spell.

**Sarcophagus**. Six rusted iron latches hold down the sarcophagus lid. Opening a single latch requires a successful DC 15 Strength check. If the six latches are opened, the lid can be removed with a successful DC 15 Strength check or by the effort of any combination of characters whose combined Strength is 30 or higher. Inside, a dragonpriest lies imprisoned, kept alive by virtue of a sequester spell that is dispelled with a flash of green light when the sarcophagus is opened. If the characters look inside, read:
>In the coffin is a troll! It's dressed in rotted finery, but its jewelry and rings adorned with tiny silver dragons still sparkle. The creature's body is shrunken and elongated, and its flesh is a rubbery, putrid green. Its black hair is long, thick, and ropy. Its beady black eyes flash open, and it snarls.

This dragonpriest delved into magic that the dragon cult deemed profane-he permanently transformed himself from an elf into a troll. For this crime, the cult entombed him alive, though the honor of his station remained. The dragonpriest attacks his rescuers, his mind all but transformed to that of a troll over the ages of his burial. He had a name, but he has forgotten it, although he has not forgotten how to speak Elvish and Draconic.

**Creature**. In his current state, the dragonpriest is slower and weaker than a normal troll. Use troll statistics, but the dragonpriest starts with 30 hit points, regenerates only 5 hit points per round (up to normal for a troll), and can't use Multiattack. If he is defeated in this state, the dragonpriest is worth 450 XP.

**Development**. The dragonpriest won't pursue fleeing characters. Instead, he continues to repose in his tomb until hunger finally draws him forth to hunt five days later. By that time, he uses the normal troll statistics, retaining his additional languages.

**Treasure**. The dragonpriest has an ornate ceremonial dagger (worth 125 gp), two silver rings (15 gp each), and a silver amulet (15 gp). Scattered across the bottom of the sarcophagus are 220 sp, 50 gp, and four spell scrolls: command, cure wounds (2nd level), inflict wounds (2nd level), and guiding bolt (2nd level).

 - [ ]  **8. Empty Room**
Several empty rooms in the fortress have the same characteristics. Nothing of note can be found in any of them.

>This ruined chamber stands empty of all but a litter of rocky debris.

 - [ ]  **9. Enchanted Water Cache**
>The stone relief-carved door sealing this chamber portrays a dragon-like fish swimming.
 
The door is locked but can be opened with thieves' tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. If the door is opened, read:
>This ten-foot-square chamber is hewn from stone. It contains an upright keg fashioned of rusted iron. Rusted pipes lead from the keg into the floor.

If anyone shakes or strikes the keg, the sound of sloshing liquid comes from inside it. The connecting pipes hold the keg in place, preventing it from being detached. The characters can remove a wide metallic bung on the keg's top with a successful DC 15 Strength check, or someone can easily stave in the side of the keg.

**Creatures**. If the keg is breached, the ice mephit and the steam mephit confined within it are released. The creatures attack anyone who has disturbed the keg.

**Treasure**. Within the keg are five tiny sapphires (worth 10 gp each) used to bring about the magic that bound the mephits.

 - [ ]  **10. Dragon Cell**
>Crudely executed symbols and glyphs, scribed in bright green dye, decorate this large and irregularly shaped crumbling chamber. A large pit in the center shows evidence of a recent fire. A metallic cage in the middle of the southern wall contains a gaping hole and stands empty. A small wooden bench draped with green cloth is next to the cage, and several small objects rest on it. A bedroll lies near the wooden bench, and the sound of whimpering comes from inside it.

Until recently, the kobolds confined a young black dragon in the cage and placed it under heavy guard. Those guards were not strong enough to stand against a sortie by goblins that stole the wyrmling a week ago.

**Creature**. Meepo, the kobold who was his tribe's Keeper of Dragons, is now the sole occupant of the chamber. He is heartsick at the loss of the wyrmling and spends much of his time nowadays in nightmare-ridden sleep in his bedroll. With the loss of his charge, Meepo's status is in the gutter. He doesn't react to anything short of loud noise or direct prodding. If he is disturbed, Meepo is frightened but willing to talk. He is weepy. His numerous obvious scars are souvenirs of his job as Keeper of Dragons. If he is asked about the cage or queried in any way that mentions a dragon, he says, "The clan's dragon... we lost it. The wretched goblins stole Calcryx, our dragon!"
To all other questions, Meepo responds by saying, "Meepo don't know, but Yusdrayl does. Meepo take you to meet Yusdrayl, our leader, if you make nice. You get safe passage, if you promise to make nice. Maybe if you promise to rescue dragon, Yusdrayl make nice to you, answer questions."
Meepo perks up as he senses the possibility of getting the dragon back. True to his word, he guides the characters to area 21. Along the way, he shouts out "Ticklecorn!" (in Draconic) from time to time, explaining that it's a password that tells other kobolds the characters are friendly. If the characters leave Meepo behind, or if they are antagonistic toward him, the characters don't learn the password, and all other kobolds are hostile toward the party.

**Development**. If combat occurs in this chamber, the kobolds in the nearby area 16 are alerted, and they rush out to meet enemies. Investigating. The symbols on the walls are crudely formed in Draconic and read, "Here There Be Dragons." The metallic cage is all but destroyed and can't be used to restrain captives. A search of the cage reveals black scales that someone who has proficiency in Nature or Survival can determine to be from no natural animal. A successful DC 15 check using either skill identifies the scales as those of a black dragon wyrmling. The firepit, if its ashes are sifted, is found to hold charred bits of kobold bones and armor.

**Treasure**. The bench serves as a sort of tiny altar. Resting on it are containers of green dye, a paintbrush made of goblin-hair bristles, and four tiny jade figurines of dragons (worth 15 gp each). A thorough search of the firepit and a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals another jade figurine.

 - [ ]  **11. Kobold Guardroom**
Three rooms in the fortress serve as kobold guard stations. All have the same characteristics.

**Door Trap**. The door leading to the room is trapped with a tripwire that the kobolds connect after shutting the door. Hitting this tripwire, 2 inches off the ground stretched between opposite door frames and running up the frame, causes the trap to trigger. A character who succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check spots the wire. If a character then succeeds on a DC 10 Dexterity check using thieves' tools, the tripwire is cut without triggering the trap. A character can attempt this check using any edged weapon or edged tool in place of thieves' tools, but does so with disadvantage.
On a failed Dexterity check, the trap triggers, tipping over a clay pot of offal, garbage, and dragon droppings that falls on any creature in the doorway and splatters in a 5-foot radius. A creature hit by the stuff must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a successful save.
The kobolds release the tension on the tripwire when they exit, meaning that any guardroom that has been vacated can be entered safely.
>A small pit of embers, built of broken masonry and portions of shattered stone sculptures, smolders in the center of this chamber. Arrayed around the pit are several small rugs woven of matted hair and dead fungi.

**Creatures**. The room serves as a barracks and guard post for the kobold tribe's warriors. Three kobolds stand guard inside, unless they have already come forth to reinforce other kobolds. If the characters try to talk and the interaction is successful, the kobolds direct the characters to head toward "Yusdrayl on her dragon throne," giving them simple directions to area 21 and warning them to avoid rousing the ire of Yusdrayl's elite guards.

 - [ ]  **12. Dragon Chow**
A character who approaches the door can smell the stench of what lies beyond. If the door is opened, read:
>Rats fill the room, trapped among their own waste. A small half-barrier prevents the rats from easily escaping when the door is open.

**Creatures**. The rats are used as food for the dragon wyrmling that was once stabled in area 15. Since the abduction of the dragon, the kobolds have neglected the rats, and in the meantime the rodents have chewed away the fastenings of the barrier. One round after someone opens the door, the rats knock the barrier over and rush out, attacking as a swarm of rats for 1 round, after which they disperse into the dungeon.

 - [ ]  **13. Prison**
Each door that lead to the prison chamber is locked, requiring a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools to unlock, and also barred on the outside with an iron rod. If a character attempts to open either door while any kobolds are present, the kobolds warn against doing so. Opening a door in spite of this warning turns the kobolds hostile.
>Four small humanoids are shackled by thick, rusted chains attached to a large iron spike set in the floor. Several broken weapons and sundered shields lie in one corner.

**Creatures**. Four orcs are chained here, taken prisoner during the course of several skirmishes. Every so often, the kobolds remove an orc from the room and ransom it back to the orcs (for a price of 2d10 sp). Those who can't be ransomed are bound for the kobold cook pot. The orcs whine and cower pathetically if any characters enter the room. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools can open the lock on the chains, or the chains can be broken (Strength DC 20) or sundered (AC 15, 60 hit points).
The orcs promise anything and everything in exchange for their release, including safe passage for the characters to their chief. The creatures have no power to guarantee their promises, however. In addition, if the orcs are released, any understanding the characters have with the kobolds is voided. Freed orcs flee at the first hint of trouble, and they double-cross their rescuers if threatened by other orcs.

 - [ ]  **14. Hall of Dragons**
>A double row of relief-carved marble columns march the length of this long, large hall. The worn carvings depict entwining dragons.

**Creatures**. An elite squad of three kobolds (each with 7 hit points) patrols the hall, considering the duty an honor. The guards pay particular attention to the door that leads to area 24, which is along the route traditionally used by goblin raiders. These kobolds react to the character's presence in the same way as the ordinary ones described in area 16. If the characters head for area 21 without causing hostilities, these guards follow the characters into Yusdrayl's presence.

**Development**. If combat erupts here, the result is likely to be deadly for the party. Any kobolds remaining in the areas nearby enter the room as reinforcements. Yusdrayl and her two guards arrive from area 21 at the start of the second round of combat. At the start of the fifth round, the kobolds in the area 16 to the southwest of this room come on the scene. At the start of the eighth round, the kobolds from area 23 enter the fray. (Kobolds that leave their original area and are slain here should be noted for possible future reference.)

 - [ ]  **15. Kobold Colony**
The strong wooden door that leads to the kobolds' living quarters is barred from the inside. Characters who give the proper password ("Ticklecorn!" spoken in Draconic; see area 15) or who make a successful DC 15 Charisma (Deception) check can convince the kobolds within to unbar the door. Otherwise, the kobolds open the door only when guards return to the room for a shift change.
>Several small but smoky fires light this wide and high chamber. Spits, tanning racks, and other implements of a primitive culture are visible through the haze. Several small figures busily work and play within the chamber.

Twenty-four kobolds occupy the room, but only three kobolds are capable warriors that challenge unescorted intruders. Seven other kobolds are commoners, but with 3 hit points each, and a -1 reduction to hit and damage compared to the Monster Manual statistics. The other tribe members here are too young, too old, or too cowardly to defend themselves; they flee if combat breaks out and are worth no XP. Even the kobolds capable of fighting run away if they are outmatched.
The kobolds here answer all questions with a quick "Yusdrayl knows." An attack on these kobolds brings reinforcements, as described in area 19, though each group arrives 1 round later because of the extra distance it must traverse.

 - [ ]  **16. Dragon Throne**
>A short throne stands near the west wall, constructed of fallen bits of masonry stacked against an old altar. On the top of the altar sit a variety of small items. The portion of the altar that serves as the throne's back features a carving of a rearing dragon. A metallic key is held firmly in the dragon's open jaws.

**Creatures**. Normally sitting on the throne is the kobolds' leader, Yusdrayl (see appendix B). Two elite kobolds (7 hit points each) guard her. Those who come to Yusdrayl's chamber can talk to her; she is hostile only if she knows that the characters have slain other kobolds. Characters who antagonize her while talking earn the leader's ire and a savage attack.

Yusdrayl can speak to the following questions:
- Why are kobolds in this place? "Kobolds are heir to dragons. As the mightiest among my people, I have led a brave few to this ancient holy site, where dragons were worshiped long ago." Yusdrayl knows nothing else about the history of the fortress, except the name of the dragon that was once revered here, which is Vvaraak.
- What about the orcs? "The Order of the Onyx Scale is headquartered below. The dragon-thieving orcs are part of that order."
- What about the monsters? "The monsters are servants of the druidic order, trying to chase us out of our cave! They are more numerous below, in the Twilight Grove."
- What about the stolen wyrmling dragon? "The orcs stole our dragon! If you return Calcryx to us. I shall grant you a reward. Meepo can accompany you if you desire."
If the characters decide to go looking for the dragon, the kobolds direct them toward the passage that connects area 15 and area 25, which is the "back way" into goblin territory. Yusdrayl and her followers know nothing useful about the goblin lair. If the characters take Meepo with them, he can serve as their guide to that location. If Meepo goes along and is slain, the kobolds count it as a small loss as long as the dragon is rescued.
Possible rewards include the key in the carved dragon's mouth, or any two of the items on the altar. Yusdrayl is also willing to sell the key for 50 gp.

**Development**. If hostilities break out, reinforcements arrive in the manner described in area 19. If the characters return Calcryx, Yusdrayl can be convinced to aid them in an assault on the remaining goblins. You determine the nature of the aid.

**Treasure**. The key clenched in the mouth of the carved dragon opens the door to area 7. Yusdrayl has keys to area 18 and the chains there, a key to the doors in area 24, and a key that once fit the cage in area 15. She also has 35 gp. The items assembled on the altar include a Quaal's feather token (tree), three spell scrolls (mage armor, spider climb, and knock), and a small flask that contains three doses of elixir of health.

 - [ ]  **17. Larder**
>The odor of rotting meat permeates this chamber. Most of the rusty iron hooks in the ceiling are empty, but a few hold the skinned carcasses of large vermin, huge fungoid stalks, and several massive insect carapaces. On a small, battered bench along the south wall are pieces of nearly useless cutlery and rusting skinning knives.

The kobolds bring food for their tribe up from Khyber and store it in a nearby chamber. The rotting flesh is that of rats, bats, overlarge cave crickets, beetles, goblin parts, and spiders. The room also has a selection of fungi and mushrooms.

 - [ ]  **18. Khyber Access**
>The floor is partially collapsed on the east side of this room, revealing a tunnel. The passage is unworked, and it fluctuates widely in width, height, and direction as natural tunnels do. Within the room, hunting gear is racked on the wall, and several pallets lie nearby.

The kobolds used the natural passage to first enter the cave, and they continue to travel through it for hunting and gathering forays into Khyber.

**Creatures**. If they have not come forth as reinforcements, three kobolds camp here, serving as hunters and guardians of the tunnel. They react as described in area 16.

 - [ ]  **19. Trapped Access**
The doors on both ends of the corridor are locked and can be opened by a character who succeeds on a DC 20 Dexterity check using thieves' tools.
>At the other end of a twenty-foot-long corridor is another closed door.

**Hidden Pit**. The map shows the location of a concealed trapdoor. A 2-foot-wide catwalk along the pit's center allows safe passage over the pit. With a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, a character notices the door's unmortared rim. After that, a character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check deduces the location of the catwalk, as well as how the pit operates. If a creature steps on the pit cover, the lid flips open, dumping the creature 10 feet into the pit. With a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, a creature can use thieves' tools and an object, such as an iron spike. to wedge the lid shut. Kobolds regularly check the trap and manually reset it when necessary.

 - [ ]  **20. Empty Chamber**
Two empty chambers in the eastern end of the fortress have the same characteristics.
>This empty chamber is home only to rat droppings, crumbled flagstone, and stains.

**Investigating**. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices tracks in the dust. Some tracks were made by rats and some by humanoids. A character who then succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check ascertains that the rat tracks are very recent, maybe a day old, and that the humanoid tracks are almost a month old and were made by three or four human-sized humanoids moving across the area to the north.

**Trap**. The door that connects the northernmost empty chamber with area 31 contains a trap. See area 31 for more details.

 - [ ]  **21. Dry Fountain**
>Dust and odd bits of stony debris and rubble lie scattered on the floor. An ornate fountain is built into the eastern wall. Though cracked and stained, the fountain's overarching carving of a diving dragon retains its beauty. A relief-carved stone door stands on the western wall.

**Investigating**. The debris and dust covering the floor display the same tracks described in area 25.

**Fountain**. A thin layer of scum coats the fountain's basin, but it is otherwise dry. Under the scrutiny of a detect magic spell, the fountain emits an aura of conjuration. A character who makes a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a mostly worn-away inscription in Draconic on the basin's front. It reads, "Let there be fire."
If a character speaks the phrase aloud, the magic of the fountain functions one last time. Reddish liquid begins to well from the diving dragon's mouth, slowly accumulating in the basin. If the liquid is collected, it can be used as a potion of fire breath. After it is used in this way, the fountain loses its magic.

**Western Door**. Carvings on the western door show skeletal dragons. A Draconic inscription on the door reads, "Rebuke the dead, open the way." Within 5 feet of the door, the air is noticeably cooler, and the door itself is cold to the touch. The locked door opens only when someone targets it with a knock spell or an effect that turns undead. If someone does so, the door glows ghostly blue and swings open silently.

**Scythe Trap**. If someone tries to open the door without first deactivating the lock, a scythe blade springs forth, targeting the area immediately in front of the door: +5 to hit, `dice: 1d8` slashing damage.
The blade is concealed in a slot in the ceiling, 10 feet up. A character who succeeds on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check can find the slot before the trap is sprung.
The opening, once discovered, can be blocked with an iron spike or a similar object. A character who does so must make a DC 15 Dexterity check or Strength check. On a failed check, the blockage falls out when the trap is sprung. Alternatively, a character can use thieves' tools and a successful DC 20 Dexterity check to pull the trap mechanism out of the slot and dismantle it. Either task takes about a minute.

 - [ ]  **22. Sanctuary**
>Five dusty sarcophagi, three to the north and two to the south, stand on end in this silent chamber. Each of the carved stone coffins resembles a noble, elf-like humanoid in ceremonial robes. An altar, with images of dragons carved into its black obsidian, is set in the center of the west wall. A single candle burns brightly on the altar. Next to the candle are a small whistle and a crystal flask.

**Creatures**. Five skeletons emerge en masse from the sarcophagi to attack those who disturb the altar or open any sarcophagus. These creatures pursue characters who flee.

**Treasure**. The candle has a continual flame spell l cast on it. In the flask is a potion of resistance (fire). The whistle, made of crystal, has the name Night Caller inscribed on it in Dwarvish. See appendix A for a description of this item. A secret compartment in the shrine, requiring a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check to find, holds a coffer containing six peridot jewels carved in a likeness of a dragon (worth 10 gp each).

 - [ ]  **23. Infested Cells**
>This section of hallway contains six doors, all slightly ajar. The area smells musky.

The doors lead to small cells. Each door is open just wide enough to enable Small and smaller creatures to slip through without having to open it farther.

**Creatures**. The two southernmost cells and the one to the northeast contain abandoned giant rat nests. One giant rat lives in each of the other cells. Any noise or light in the area attracts all three creatures.

**Investigating**. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices tracks in the dust here. Some tracks were made by rats and some by humanoids. A character who then succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check ascertains that the rat tracks are recent, perhaps a few minutes old, and the humanoid tracks are almost a month old and were made by four human-sized individuals moving across the area to the north. Only three of those individuals returned south.

**Treasure**. The occupied rat nests contain shiny bits collected by their current owners. Poking through each nest turns up `dice: 2d6-2` sp, `dice: 1d6-1` gp, and `dice: 1d4-1` gems (worth 5 gp each).

 - [ ]  **24. Disabled Traps**
>The cobblestone floor contains two trapdoors blocked open by iron spikes. The north wall holds a dry fountain carved with an overarching diving dragon. A faint rotten stench pervades the room.

**Investigating**. The two marked areas on the map are traps that were jammed open by the lost adventuring party. Examining each one reveals a 20-foot-deep pit containing only rat bones, rusted metal bits, and filth. Chances to find or follow the trail noted in area 28 are similar here. The trail of the missing adventuring party skirts around the traps and leads to the western wooden door.

**Development**. Those who spend more than 3 rounds in the chamber conversing in normal tones, or otherwise making noise, draw the attention of the inhabitants of area 30, who hide to ready an ambush.

**Trapped Fountain**. The dry fountain on the northern wall looks remarkably like the one described in area 26. Under the scrutiny of a detect magic spell, the fountain emits a faint aura of evocation. A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals suspicious metallic tubes in the carved dragon's mouth, as well as a small, rusted iron canister. A character who makes a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices a mostly worn-away inscription in Draconic on the front of the basin. It reads, "Let there be death."
Anyone who speaks this phrase aloud in Draconic triggers the trap. A poison mist sprays forth from the dragon's mouth, filling a 20-foot cube and expending the canister's last charge. Those in the area must make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5 (1d10) poison damage and becomes poisoned for 10 minutes. On a successful save, the creature takes only half the poison damage and is poisoned for 1 minute.

**Western Door**. A character who approaches the western door can smell the stench of rotten meat coming from the other side.

 - [ ]  **25. Mama Rat**
>An oppressive smell suffuses the air, rising from chewed carcasses of cave rats, smaller vermin, and a few humanoid-looking creatures. The bodies lie upon a floor of filth, old bones, hair, and fur that combine to make a particularly large and vile nest.

**Investigating**. The humanoid corpses in the chamber include two goblins, a kobold, and one human male - a member of the lost adventuring party (Karakas the ranger).

**Creatures**. Three giant rats occupy the area, along with a monstrously swollen female diseased giant rat (Medium [6 feet long], 16 hit points, +5 to hit, challenge rating 1/4 [50 XP]) that the goblins call Guthash (Bloated One). The giant rats that hunt in the Sunless Citadel all descend from her. These creatures attack and attempt to eat all trespassers.

**Treasure**. Poking through the refuse over a period of 10 minutes uncovers 312 sp, 68 gp, and 3 gems (worth 25 gp each). On and around the ranger's corpse are several items: studded leather armor, five daggers, a longbow, a backpack (containing a water skin, one day's rations, a bedroll, a tinderbox, and three torches), a quiver with six arrows, a potion of healing, and a pouch that holds 17 gp. A gold ring (worth 10 gp) on Karakas's finger is engraved (in Common) with his name.

##### 3: Order of the Onyx Scale Lair

 - [ ]  **26. Caltrop Hall**
The door that leads north into this hallway is closed and fitted with a bell that clangs if someone opens the door without doing so very slowly. With a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, someone who carefully opens the door might spot the bell attached to the door about 3 feet off the ground. A character who examines the space around the door before opening it and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check notices the damage done to the door when the goblins fastened the bell to it. If the bell rings, the noise alerts the goblins in area 32. They duck behind the low wall and wait to ambush intruders that enter the corridor.

>The ten-foot-wide hall is liberally strewn with sharp caltrops. On the northern wall, passage to the room beyond is partially blocked by a roughly mortared, three-foot-high wall, complete with crenellations.

The floor in the hallway is strewn with about two hundred caltrops (see "Adventuring Gear" in chapter 5 of the Player's Handbook).

**Creatures**. Two orcs use ranged attacks as the characters move through the hall, if alerted to their presence.

 - [ ]  **27. Lair Gate**
>The filth on the floor, stains on the walls, shabby hides, and firepit attest to the years of use this room has seen at the hands of creatures unconcerned with hygiene. On the eastern side of the southern wall is a crudely mortared half-wall, complete with crenellations.

**Creatures**. Two orcs are stationed behind the rough, 3-foot-high wall. They are hostile to intruders, but unwilling to die facing a superior force. If captured, these orcs know the same information that Erky Timbers in area 34 does.

**Development**. If one of the orcs gets away, it warns the orcs in area 33. The alerted orcs prepare an ambush for intruders in that area.

**Investigating**. A search of the room turns up putrid jerky, vinegary wine in poorly preserved water skins, and other worthless bits of clutter.

 - [ ]  **28. Practice Range**
>The sound of orcs engaged in target practice might be heard from outside any of the doors to the practice range. Dozens of blunted and broken arrows lie on the cracked cobblestone floor, and a few protrude from three crudely sewn, human-sized targets hung along the center of the south wall. The northern third of the room is separated from the south by a crudely mortared and crenellated half-wall. A permanent camp of sorts lies north of the wall, complete with a fire ring and several small iron cook pots.

**Creatures**. The three orcs assigned to watch the room spend some of their time shooting at the hair-and fur-filled burlap dummies that look vaguely like humans and elves. The rest of the time they drink too much wine. When fighting, the orcs try to use the 3-foot-high wall for cover while shooting their foes.

**Treasure**. One orc has a silver flask of dwarven make (worth 50 gp) filled with wine. Another orc has a key to open the locked door to area 34.

**Development**. If things go badly for the orcs, one of them attempts to warn the orc warriors in area 39.

 - [ ]  **29. Stockade**
>The wooden door is closed and locked. It can be opened by a character who succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. Squalor reigns in this low-ceilinged room. A large iron spike is driven into the floor near the door, and a small iron cage is set farther back. Several sets of corroded manacles are connected to the walls.and some still bind a few crumbling skeletons.

**Creatures**. Three kobolds are bound with crude rope to the iron spike. A battered gnome lies in the cage, which is almost too small for him. It's easy to untie the kobolds. Freeing the caged gnome requires either a successful DC 15 Strength check to bend the bars or a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools to open the cage lock.
The kobolds are aware that the orcs might try to ransom them back to the other kobolds. Uncertain of their chances with the characters, the kobolds are unhelpful and reluctant to be set free. If they are released and shown a clear line of retreat, the kobolds flee. They know very little, but they react positively to Meepo's presence or if they are told that the characters intend to free Calcryx.
The gnome is named Erky Timbers, an acolyte with 17 (5d6) hit points who knows Common, Draconic, Gnomish, and Orcish. He has the cleric's Channel Divinity: Turn Undead feature, which he can use once after each short or long rest. If he is released, he helpfully answers questions. He knows the following information:
- Why are you here? "Months past, I was on my way to seek my fortune and took the Old Road. My bad luck that the goblin bandits caught me; I've been here ever since. My deity's blessings have kept me healthy; otherwise I'm sure I'd be dead from starvation and abuse."
- What about the goblins/Belak? "I've heard the goblins talk about the Twilight Grove down below. A wicked old human called Belak-a spellcaster, I suspecttends an enchanted garden and harvests fruit from something the goblins call the Gulthias Tree, but they speak of it only in the most terrified of whispers. The enchanted fruit grows on the Gulthias Tree."

**Development**. If the characters fail to suggest it. Erky Timbers asks to join the party as a temporary member. The gnome serves as a loyal friend. Currently, though, he has no gear.

**Manacles**. The rusted iron restraints can bind a Small or Medium creature. If the characters are taken prisoner (see area 36) and bound here, escaping from the manacles requires a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. A set of manacles can be broken with a successful DC 20 Strength check, or a character proficient with thieves' tools can pick the lock on a set of manacles with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. Manacles have AC 15 and 15 hit points.

 - [ ]  **30. Trapped Corridor**
**Hidden Pit**. The map shows the location of a concealed trapdoor. A 2-foot-wide catwalk along the pit's center allows safe passage over the pit. With a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, a character notices the door's unmortared rim. After that, a character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check deduces the location of the catwalk, as well as how the pit operates.
If a creature steps on the pit cover, the lid flips open, dumping the creature 10 feet into the pit. With a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, a creature can use thieves' tools and an object, such as an iron spike, to wedge the lid shut.

**Development**. If characters fall into the pit or otherwise make excessive noise, the goblins in the area 36 to the north are alerted. Alerted goblins respond in 2 rounds. These goblins also check the trap and manually reset it.

**Treasure**. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check made while searching around the pit uncovers a long-lost gold ring with an inset sapphire (worth 25 gp).

 - [ ]  **31. Trophy Room**
Both of the wooden doors that offer access to the trophy room are closed and locked. Either door can be opened by a character who succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools.
>Mounted and stuffed animal heads adorn the walls. The mounting job is sloppy, and the assortment of heads includes cattle, rats, and other not particularly impressive specimens. A few grisly trophies share the wall with the animals, including a couple of kobold heads. Smashed and broken cabinets and small tables litter the periphery of the room, mute victims of some sort of rampage. A rusted iron spike stands in the center of the room, trailing a broken chain. Thin patches of frost coat sections of the walls, floor, and debris.

**Creature**. Calcryx, the young black dragon, is initially out of view, resting behind a broken table. The orcs used the iron chain to bind her, but she broke free and rampaged through the room, destroying the floor displays. Balsag, the bugbear responsible for capturing the dragon, hasn't returned to bring her under control, and the other goblins fear to enter.
The dragon finds her current situation superior to her station as the kobolds' pet. She is hostile to those who enter this chamber. If battle breaks out and Meepo accompanies the party, the dragon targets him first.

**Treasure**. The dragon has scoured the room and gathered all items of worth into a nest she made behind the table. The valuables include a dragon-shaped, jade figurine (worth 20 gp), a crystal goblet (5 gp), and twenty-four pieces of fine silverware (1 gp each).

 - [ ]  **32. Pantry**
>The north and south walls of this chamber are stacked halfway to the ceiling with ill-made barrels, boxes, and crates. A clear path allows easy access between the west and east doors.

The orcs store water, wine, and food, none of which is of great quality, in a pantry accessible through two doors. The stockpile includes five pints of oil, along with a few small barrels labeled "Elf Pudding" in Orcish.

 - [ ]  **33. Dragon Haze**
>Several torches mounted in crude sconces burn fitfully around this chamber, filling the air with a haze. A double row of marble columns carved with entwining dragons runs the length of the hall.

As long as the torches burn, the hall is lighted, but the haze makes the area lightly obscured. The haze never builds to suffocating levels, thanks to natural ventilation. Any loud noise in the chamber attracts the attention of goblins in the area 36 to the south, as well as in area 40. The goblins in area 40 prepare for danger but don't leave their stations, while those in area 36 come to investigate within 2 rounds. 40.

 - [ ]  **34. Order Headquarters**
Anyone who stands within 10 feet of a door leading to the orcs' main living area can hear the voices of the orcs inside, unless they have been alerted to danger.
>What might once have been a cathedral is now a headquarters of sorts. Scores of wall- and floor-mounted sconces filled with violet-glowing fungi provide illumination. Dozens of orcs go about their daily business. Along the southern wall is a heaping pile of assorted items, including wagon wheels, broken armor and rusted arms, chests, small statues, antique furniture, and artwork.

**Creatures**. ???

**Development**. An attack on the orcs brings reinforcements from others areas and warns the Order leader that something is amiss.

**Investigating**. The orcs collect the phosphorescent fungi from the grove below. They need its light for close work, such as reading, and the fungus is edible. Crude equipment for cooking, skinning game, tanning hides, and other basic gear fills the area.


 - [ ]  **35. Hall of the Black Dragon**
If the orc guards in the chief's hall have been alerted, or if they hear conflict in area 40, they cover the door for 10 minutes, then investigate the source of the disruptions at their leader's behest.
>A circular shaft pierces the floor of this forty-foot-diameter domed chamber. Dim violet light shines out of the shaft, revealing sickly white and gray vines that coat the walls of the shaft. The light is supplemented by four lit wall torches set equidistant around the periphery of the chamber. A crudely fashioned stone throne sits against the curve of the northwestern wall. A large iron chest serves as the throne's footstool. A sapling grows in a 1 wide stone pot next to the throne.

**Creatures**. ???

**Development**. ???

**Shaft**. The shaft has a 2-foot wall around it, much like the upper end of a well. Because of the wall, a creature pushed toward the shaft can avoid going over the edge by falling prone and succeeding on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw. Thick, pale vines line the shaft. The vines are as good as knotted rope for the purpose of climbing. A creature that falls into the shaft can make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw to catch the vines. On a failed save, the creature falls 80 feet to the floor of area 42.

**Trapped Chest**. An iron chest rests in front of the throne. It is locked (Dexterity DC 15 using thieves' tools) and trapped with a poisoned needle. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check deduces the trap's presence from alterations made to the lock. A character can then remove the needle from the lock by succeeding on a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. On a failed Dexterity check, the trap is triggered. When the trap is triggered, the needle extends 3 inches straight out from the lock. A creature within striking distance takes 1 piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or take 3 (ld6) poison damage.

**Treasure**. ???

##### 4: Hidden Grove

 - [ ]  **36. Central Garden**
>Luminescent fungus, shedding violet light, clings to the walls and ceiling of this wide cavern. The air is damp, chilly, and redolent with the odors of loam and decay. A layer of earth, mixed with rotting vegetation and the remains of cave animals, covers the floor. Several varieties of mushrooms and fungi grow on the detritus, as well as a few saplings.

**Creatures**. Two robed skeletons (AC 12) believe they still serve Vvaraak by tending a fungus garden, using shovels and a rusted wheelbarrow to turn the soil and spread compost. In addition, two mature twig blights are rooted in the garden. The twig blights ambush intruders that aren't goblinoids, and the skeletons attack (with shovels, ld6 bludgeoning damage) anything that the twig blights target.

**Development**. The creatures in area 43 investigate any disturbance in the garden after 3 rounds.

 - [ ]  **37. Rift**
>A rift opens here, its debris-strewn floor two feet below that of the corridor. No phosphorescent fungus grows in the rift. The corridor continues past the rift, though the opening of the rift has caused it to shift 10 feet to the west. A number of two-foot-diameter holes riddle the floor of the rift. The smell of burnt earth hangs in the air.

The small holes in the floor extend as far down as anyone is capable of probing.

 - [ ]  **38. Rift Node**
>The rift widens, creating a cavern-like chamber. Small, two-foot-diameter holes riddle the node . A dim fiery glow shines out of one such hole.

**Creature**. In the glowing hall rests a fire snake. Belak used magic to call the creature forth and hopes to train it to be a loyal servant before it matures.

**Treasure**. Belak has already appealed to the snake's greed with a small gift. In its nest, the adventurers find two sapphires (worth 50 gp each).

 - [ ]  **39. Old Shrine**
The stone door at the end of the corridor is closed and stuck, requiring someone to make a successful DC 15 Strength check to pull it open.
>Faded mosaic tiles still decorate parts of the wall, but most have fallen to the dust-covered floor and shattered. Situated at the center of the chamber stands a slim pedestal of rusted iron shaped like an upright dragon. In the dragon's mouth rests an empty tray.

The room once held items of importance to the old dragon cult. The remaining features are dust-covered and worthless.

 - [ ]  **40. Vvaraak's Sanctuary**
Two rows of dragon-carved marble columns march the length of the hall, most completely covered in luminescent fungus. The cobbled floor is cracked and stained, and on it sit many small wooden tables. The contents on the tables include mortars and pestles, small tools, bowls filled with crushed leaves, chopped fungus stalks, and other plant specimens. The many doors leading off this hall are all partly open. Belak prepares various experimental concoctions in his laboratory and the small chambers that lead off it (see the sections below), with the fumbling aid of goblins that serve him. Any noise or disturbance in the main area draws all the monsters, although those in the northwest chamber respond most slowly.

**Investigating**. The containers on the small tables in the main area hold mashed leaves, fungus, bark, and powdered roots. A character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check identifies many common varieties of tree, shrub, and fungus, although all have a pronounced pallor, as if sun-starved.

**Treasure**. One pile of herbs and supplies in the main chamber contains the ingredients of a healer's kit. An assortment of tools and herbs can be salvaged to make up a herbalism kit and a set of alchemist's supplies.

**Northwest Chamber**. Snores are audible from the room to the northwest, which is a rough barracks. Sixteen small pallets of matted fur cover the floor. Two pallets currently hold a sleeping goblin and two goblin commoners (like those in area 40).

**Southwest Chamber**. The goblins use a crude mashing, straining, and casking facility to create goblin wine, which they and Belak are quite fond of. Two goblin commoners currently stand barefoot in the mashing-tun, squashing roots and fungi into pulp. A dirty straining bin stands nearby, as well as ten 2-gallon casks of the end product.

**North Central Chamber**. Two goblin commoners currently repair dirty goblin armor with cord, iron needles, leather patches, and other crude implements of tailoring.

**South Central Chamber**. One goblin and two goblin commoners monitor the health of a diseased giant rat, which is strapped spread-eagled onto a wooden bench. The rat suffers from horrible tumors that look woody and fruit-like. Its tumors stem from an elixir Belak created to infuse twig blight traits into giant rats. On a stand in the corner is a fancy crystal vial (worth 5 gp) that contains the elixir. Drinking the elixir exposes the drinker to the same disease that the diseased rat might impart with its bite, except the initial saving throw DC is 15.

**Northeast Chamber**. Extra weapon stores include five battered scimitars, six shortbows, and forty arrows.

**Southeast Chamber**. The room stands empty, and the caved-in back wall leads to a natural rift in the earth (see area 44).

 - [ ]  **41. Garden Galleries**
The two galleries that lead to the arboretums have the same characteristics. The doors to all connecting areas are closed.
>Nodules of luminescent fungus hang from the ceiling and walls and grow in clumps on the flagstone floor. The light illuminates portions of grand bas-relief carvings on the stone walls that aren't covered with the fungus. The carvings depict dragons in various stages of raining fire down upon terrified people. Soil and compost cover half the chamber's floor, which allows a variety of feeble plants to grow. A bench containing simple gardening implements stands along the west wall.

Belak is using the galleries to grow above ground vegetation using the light of luminescent fungus.

**Creature**. A bugbear gardener roams both galleries, tending the grasses for Belak. She is armed with a sickle-bladed glaive; she has a reach of 10 feet and deals 2d10 + 2 slashing damage with it.

**Treasure**. The bugbear carries a potion of healing. Development. The neighboring arboretums (area 49) contain additional monsters. The closed doors and stone walls prevent sound from entering these four areas. The creatures within join the battle here at your discretion.

 - [ ]  **42. Arboretums**
Luminescent mist blurs the edges of this octagonal chamber. Nodules of glowing fungus dot the stone walls and ceiling, as well as the caps of toadstools and mushrooms, small polyps, puffballs, and lichen. The humid air reeks with rot. The arboretums hold small samples of traditional Underdark ecosystems, which aren't difficult for Belak to nurture. The stone doors leading to them are unlocked.

**Southern Arboretum**. A goblin and three goblin commoners gather fungus for use in area 47.

**Southeast Arboretum**. Several growths in the chamber are scorched and dead. Fungus shrouds holes similar to those found in area 45, and a fire snake lurks inside one of these openings. It emerges if anyone pokes into or closely examines the holes. If the snake comes out, a character who reaches into the snake's burrow can recover two sapphires (worth 50 gp each).

**Northeast Arboretum**. Three skeletons- AC 12, 3 (ld6) bludgeoning damage with shovels or rakes- are at work, clearing scorched plants. One twig blight, which is hostile to the adventurers, is with them. The skeletons attack anything the twig blight attacks. Fungus shrouds holes similar to those in area 45.

**Northern Arboretum**. The northern room contains only its plants.

 - [ ]  **43. Vvaraak's Shrine**
>Dragon-carved granite blocks line this chamber's walls and ceiling, though many are crumbled and broken, leaving stony debris on the floor. A huge marble statue of a rearing red dragon stands in the curve of the western wall. The eye sockets of the dragon are empty, but a red glow lingers there, providing reddish light throughout the chamber. The radiance casts an inky shadow behind the statue's wide wings. A five-foot-diameter, circular tile of dark stone is set in the floor in front of the dragon statue. Runes are carved around the circular tile's inner edge.

**Investigating**. Viewed in white light, the circular tile is red. A detect magic spell can reveal that the tile and statue give off an aura of transmutation. The runes on the tile's inner edge read, in Draconic, "Let the sorcerous power illuminate my spirit."
If anyone speaks this sentence aloud while standing on the tile, a puff of spectral flame harmlessly envelops the speaker, granting the target advantage on Charisma checks for 24 hours. Once the tile is activated, it is dormant for 24 hours.

**Creature**. A shadow hides in the gloom behind the dragon statue. It attacks only those who spot it or who attempt to investigate the circular tile or claim the treasure. The creature doesn't pursue those who flee.

**Treasure**. A loose stone is in the wall behind the statue, requiring a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to find. Inside are 34 gp and two flasks of alchemist's fire.

 - [ ]  **44. Dragon Library**
>Leaning and fallen stone bookshelves fill this chamber, though a clear path connects wooden doors on opposite walls. Torn and burnt pages, bindings, and scrolls form disordered piles in the corners.

**Treasure**. Rooting around in the wreckage, separate successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks uncover a spell scroll of scorching ray, a spell scroll of Melf's acid arrow, and a tome of dragon lore bound in dragon scale and written in Draconic (worth 150 gp).

 - [ ]  **45. Underpass**
>Damp and crumbled steps descend sharply.

The steps descend 15 feet. An 8-foot-high stone corridor passes about 7 feet below the northern arboretum (area 49), connecting the stairways on either side.

 - [ ]  **46. Vvaraak's Study**
The wooden door leading to Belak's study is closed and locked. The lock can be undone by someone who uses thieves' tools and succeeds on a DC 20 Dexterity check.
>A layer of soil covers the floor. Rough wooden shelves, filled with a scattering of tomes and scrolls, line the north and east walls, and a rough-hewn desk stands in the center of the chamber. Fungus on the ceiling provides light, apparently in sufficient quantity to nourish several small bushes and pale saplings that grow in the soil.

**Investigating**. In his study, Belak stores seasonal records of growth, precipitation, harvests, and similar notes for the surrounding lands for the last dozen years. One interesting tome titled (in Draconic) Treasures of the Fire Lords has a glyph of warding spell with an explosive runes effect on it. The glyph is on the second page, and it's triggered when someone opens to that page. Otherwise, the book is blank.
If the glyph is triggered, it erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the book. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 22 (5d8) cold damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. The cold doesn't damage the other works here.

**Development**. If any obvious disturbance occurs here, the goblins in area 54 set an ambush for intruders. They wait at least 10 minutes before coming to investigate.

**Treasure**. Separate successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks uncover a spell scroll of entangle, a spell scroll of protection from poison, and a tome on druidic theories on the cycle of life and death (worth 150 gp). Cubbyholes in the desk hold 365 gp and four agate gems (20 gp each).

 - [ ]  **47. Grove Gate**
>Twigs and roots are piled on the floor of this sagging chamber. The collapsed southern wall opens into a vast cavern. Luminescent fungus on the rough walls and the high roof loom over a twilight grove of sickly briars, bushes, saplings, and other woody plants. Ruined walls and hollow towers protrude from the briars.

**Creatures**. Four goblins sort the specimens for Belak. They are hostile to intruders. If things go badly for them, they cry out in Goblin, saying, "Aid us, Protector of the Twilight Grove!"

**Development**. Sometimes the twig blights in area 55 attack the goblins out of sheer malice. Thus, a call from the goblins doesn't bring all the forces of the cavern down on the characters. But if the goblins do call, four twig blights arrive from area 55 and attack.

**Investigating**. Any character who gazes into area 55 and succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check spots the blackened top of the Gulthias Tree in the distance. If the check succeeds by 3 or more, the character also spots the twig blights creeping around in area 55.

 - [ ]  **48. Twilight Grove**
>Pale, spindly briars press close, casting twisted shadows I on the earth floor in the violet light.

**Briars**. The most successful aboveground plants that Belak has transplanted in the Twilight Grove are the briars, though they appear sickly and pale, with blighted leaves. Other common plants and bushes are also represented, though they are equally afflicted. The briars don't hinder Small and smaller creatures. Larger creatures must either spend 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot moved or make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw for every 10 feet moved. On a failed save, the creature takes 1 piercing damage from the briars. A 5-foot-by-5-foot area of briars can be cleared if it takes 20 damage of any type other than psychic.

**Creatures**. Ten twig blights, less any that were dispatched in area 54, are spread about the grove. After moving 50 feet into the cavern, the characters come upon ld4 of the hostile creatures. Any significant noise, such as from combat or clearing the briars, also attracts ld4 - 1 twig blights (minimum 0) each round.

**Development**. If the characters get to area 56 before all the twig blights have engaged, the rest of the monsters hold off their attacks. Any conflict that involves yelling in a language other than Goblin, the use of flashy magical effects, or similar noticeable elements alerts Belak in area 56 to the approach of invaders.

##### 5: Reward, Revelation, Plot Twist

 - [ ]  -

* 

 - [ ]  -

* 

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The glade is one location where Vvaraak, also known as the Scaled Apostate, taught the principles of druidic magic to Gatekeeper orcs over ten thousand years ago.
 - [ ]  Gatekeeper druids find the Glade hospitable, and the waters there have healing powers. Creatures opposed to the Gatekeeper philosophy have difficulty approaching the glade.
 - [ ]  Three bronzewood trees grow in the glade.
 - [ ]  The glade offers valuable insights to Chamber agents and others who seek to understand the Prophecy.

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Create random table for "Mystic Glade Phophesies" that give the players clues to other adventures in other parts of the world, or clues into the goals of the dragons.
* Monsters: Mavka (ToB1), Miremal (ToB1), Moss Lurker (ToB1), Swamp Naga (ToB2), Quickserpent (ToB2)

### References

* Dragons of Eberron, pg. 90-91 (The Mystic Glade)
* "Sunless Citadel" from Tales of the Yawning Portal
