 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The party is drawn to The Mournland by rumors of a powerful artifact, the Draconic Phylactery, connected to Arstyvrax. This item is believed to be a key component in the dragon's necromantic rituals and schemes, potentially even holding his actual essence.

### Characters and Locations

* **[[Kazdurakashtan (Haze-of-Death)]]** (CE male white dragon).
* **[[Ikar the Black]]** (NE male half-orc salvager).
* **[[Lord of Blades (Aaren d’Cannith)]]** (LE male warforged artificer).
* **Drugor** (NE male human rogue). A former member of Ikar the Black's crew who was captured by Haze-of-Death, and became warped in both mind and body due to proximity to the Glowing Chasm. Haze-of-Death uses Drugor to investigate areas too small for the mighty dragon to enter, and to “spy” on the enemies that he imagines surround him.

* **[[Mournland (Cyre)]]**
* **[[Loom Keep]]**
* **[[Vathirond]]**
* **[[Kennrun]]**
* **[[Lyrenton]]**
* **[[Gatherhold]]**
* **[[Taer Valior]]**

### Scenes and Situations

##### 1: The Veil of Mourning

 - [ ]  **The Dead Grey Mists**

>As you step into the thick, enveloping mist of the Mournland, the air grows cold and heavy, dampening the sounds of your footsteps and cloaking the landscape in a ghostly silence. Suddenly, a shape begins to form within the swirling fog — a great cat, its sleek gray coat barely visible as tendrils of smoke drift off its body, leaving misty whorls in its wake. Its eyes, shifting from dull, pallid orbs to pitch black slits, fixate on you as it pads noiselessly closer. As its body fades in and out of the fog, it curls its lips into a fang-revealing smile and utters in a voice as sinuous as the mist, "Whooo... are... you?"

- Entering The Mournland, the party encounters a mysterious Vapor Lynx who patrols the fogs. Its personality is inspired by the Caterpillar from Alice in Wonderland, and should present cryptic statements to the players (using any of the example lines below), attacking at the first opportunity to catch them unawares.

>"Curiouser and curiouser, why do the bold wander where the land itself has lost its way? Beware, for not all who wander are lost — some are just buried beneath their fears."

>"Do circles have ends? If you walk long enough here, you might find where the circle begins, or perhaps, where it breaks."

>"In the Mournland, truths are draped in riddles, and riddles are wrapped in the mist. Can you unravel a truth if you cannot trust your own eyes?"

`encounter: 1: Vapor Lynx`

 - [ ]  **Ikar the Black and Ikar's Salvage**

- Ikar is a traveling salvager who the party may encounter. If they do, they're welcome to trade for any junk he may have gathered throughout his time in the Mournland. Of note, a few months ago, he and his band of followers (mostly humans) had a run-in with a pale white dragon covered in mist who absconded with one of his followers (Drugor).

>“It came over the hill and straight at us. I can’t remember exactly how it looked, only its size, and the gray haze that came with it. We lost Drugor. I hope he died quick. I never saw anything that horrific before, and I don’t expect to ever again.”

 - [ ]  **Lord of Blades and The Blades**

- The Lord of Blades has gathered followers from among the warforged of Khorvaire, and sought to build an empire upon the ruins of Cyre, deep within the desolate Mournland. These followers call themselves "The Blades" and have joined his nation, centered in a great, hidden fortress where Warforged from all over Khorvaire can come and feel a sense of belonging. Today his Warforged roam the Mournland, patrolling the devastated terrain and salvaging resources from the ashes of Cyre.

##### 2: The Pointcrawl

- All scene locations below are keyed to the [[Mournland.canvas|Mournland]] map. For every path taken on the pointcrawl, roll for a random encounter based on the path color (red: 11+, green: 15+, blue: 18+).

 - [ ]  **1. Dollen on the River**

- A town once stood here, but burned down years ago by an invading army during the Last War. Every building is nothing but a foundation, bricks lay blackened and scattered, and all the fields are torched. That is, except for one cottage near the edge of town, which appears cozy and inviting. A fire is lit in the hearth and smoke is coming out of the chimney. Sounds of music and laughter can be heard and shapes of people dancing can be seen through the curtains.
- Inside, the cottage is empty of people, but there is food on the hearth and no matter what the temperature is outside, it is warm and comfortable inside. Regardless of how many characters are present, there are enough spacious rooms and feather beds for everyone to have their own. Unseen Servants provide everything from cooking to turndown service. A DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check suggests a modified Mirage Arcana or Mordenkainen’s Magnificent Mansion is responsible for the cottage. But it takes a DC 20 Intelligence (Religion) check to correctly identify that the cottage is itself a ghost. The cottage is extremely shy and doesn’t manifest an avatar, which will communicate directly with the characters, unless they spend at least 3 full days here.

 - [ ]  **2. Swoz**

- A camp of a half dozen tents occupied by warforged who are allied with the Lord of Blades. At the center of the camp is a large tent for the enclave’s commander (see below) and a forge which doubles as a center of religious rites related to the Lord of Blades. The camp perimeter is always guarded by four warforged scouts who either ambush the characters, or alert the camp, depending on how strong the adventurers seem. The entire camp is hostile to any non-warforged and will attack in force. Approximately a dozen other warforged live here, a combination of commoners and thugs.
- There is also a commander who knows information about strikes happening against humanoids outside the Mournland and the location of one other enclave. As the commander is absolutely loyal to the Lord of Blades getting this information will require magical coercion.
- Roll a d4 to determine the enclave's commander and the magic item that they possess:
	1. Echo, priest, carrying a Pearl of Power.
	2. Jury, veteran, with a Sentinel Shield (19 AC).
	3. Safeguard, martial arts adept, with Stone of Good Luck.
	4. Ember, mage, with Headband of Intellect (spell DC 15).

 - [ ]  **3. Fort Bright**

- In the distance there is a large encampment of twenty tents including a large tent for a commander. Within the camp are four burning cooking fires. Silhouettes of four humanoid figures appear to be standing and sitting around one of the cooking fires watching the roasts. No matter how long the camp is observed, no figures can be seen moving around.
- Inside the camp, empty sets of clothes and armor are strewn everywhere as if suddenly abandoned. Inside the tents are weapons and provisions similarly discarded. The four humanoid figures by the fire are empty suits of plate mail which haven't yet toppled over. Upon being touched, the suits crumble to dust.
- The commander’s tent contains comfortable cushions and chairs and a table covered with battle maps and miniatures of the surrounding terrain. A cursory inspection of the maps shows that the nearby landscape has been radically altered; hills, trees, and rivers are no longer where they once were. A locked chest contains orders from Metrol, two [[potion of healing]], and a spell scroll of *[[revivify]]* which could not save the inhabitants of the camp.
- At night the camp is haunted by 4 specters which don’t communicate and fight until destroyed. The specters won't leave the camp, and even if destroyed, will return each night.

`encounter: 4: Specter`

 - [ ]  **4. Eston**

- The area within two miles of this site is littered with pieces of clockwork and severed metal-wood limbs characteristic of warforged composite plating. As the characters move toward the enclave they can hear rustling in the woods and the occasional metal-wood animal can be seen in the brush.
- Before reaching the enclave, anyone passing through is ambushed by a group of animal-like warforged. Roll on the encounter table. Use the normal statistics for such creatures, except change their type to construct, and they are immune to necrotic, poison, and psychic damage as well as the poisoned condition.

| dice: 1d6 | Encounter                                   |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | `encounter: 1: Giant Crocodile` (warforged) |
| 2         | `encounter: 2: Giant Elk` (warforged)       |
| 3         | `encounter: 1d6: Giant Toad` (warforged)    |
| 4         | `encounter: 1d6: Giant Crab` (warforged)    |
| 5         | `encounter: 2d4: Boar` (warforged)          |
| 6         | `encounter: 15: Lizard` (warforged, swarm)  |

- The enclave was once a small research laboratory for House Cannith until it was torched during the Last War. All that remains are the foundations of the building and an irreparably damaged creation forge which lies beneath the rubble. Once per day at noon it sends out glowing mists and produces a highly aggressive animal-like warforged.
- Even though it is broken, knowledge of this creation forge’s location would be of great interest to Cannith South. However, the Treaty of Thronehold forbids the creation of new warforged. Instead, the characters might destroy it and claim a bounty of up to 1,000 gp from a fund set up during the Treaty of Thronehold.

 - [ ]  **5. Kalazart**

- This small town has been almost entirely converted into a massive hive and its streets are filled with honeycomb. Hundreds of giant worker bees (use the statistics for a giant fly) swarm the hive, while others arrive and leave in small groups, searching for prey. Dozens of giant soldier bees (giant wasps) patrol the hive in groups of 4, and either attack, or seek reinforcements after sizing up intruders. The leader of the hive is a giant queen bee (giant scorpion with 16 Intelligence), who can communicate telepathically in a 500 ft radius.
- If the characters fight or sneak through a wave of soldiers, the defenders suddenly depart. After a few moments, the queen bee introduces herself to them telepathically and invites them to dine with her. If they accept, a group of giant courtier bees wearing humanoid suits escorts them to the queen’s chambers. The queen’s intentions are left to the DM.
- Opening up a honeycomb requires the use of an action. Roll on the following table to determine its contents. Each magic item can only be encountered once.

| dice: 1d10 | Honeycomb Contents                                   |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 1-4        | The corpse of an animal, encased in honey.           |
| 5          | The corpse of a humanoid, encased in honey.          |
| 6          | The corpse of a humanoid, wearing Helm of Telepathy. |
| 7          | A Decanter of Endless Water producing water.         |
| 8-9        | A giant bee larva.                                   |
| 10         | Royal jelly (treat as Keoghtom’s Ointment).          |

 - [ ]  **6. Metrol**

- The remains of what was once the tracks for a lightning rail. The characters find a line of now inert pyramidal structures leading to an abandoned Lightning Rail Station and continuing off into the distance to both the east and west.
- One or more of the stones has been damaged and a lightning elemental has been released. Despite being set free of its casing, it is still bound to stay within 100 feet of the conductor stones themselves. The elemental has been driven mad by its imprisonment within the stone and the Mournland and attacks anyone that approaches. A DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check indicates that *[[dispel magic]]* cast on the elemental, or the stone, will disperse it. Also, if the elemental fails a save against a *[[calm emotions]]*, or similar spell, it can be reasoned with.
- House Orien is willing to pay generously for concrete information on the whereabouts of conductor stones in the Mournland, up to 500 gp per mile of stones.

`encounter: 1: Lightning Elemental`

 - [ ]  **7. Tronish**

- Two huge creatures are battling over this region to be their hunting area. One looks humanoid, but has hands where its eyes belong. Its skin is covered in patches of scales, fur, and rock. The other is a quadruped whose skin is covered in scar tissue and knots. It has far too many eyes in too many places.
- Left alone, one of the creatures will win in 3 rounds and then immediately turn its assault on the characters. At this point, the creature is injured, but its wounds rapidly begin closing and healing themselves. Treat it as a mammoth with regeneration 5, starting at half health (63 hit points).

 - [ ]  **8. Making (and the Glass Plateau)**

- The ground here is smooth and made of glass. A number of cracks in the ground spew glass dust in 15 foot cubic clouds heavily obscuring anything inside them as well as inflicting `dice:2d4` points of slashing damage per round. A glass xorn, immune to non-magical slashing damage (and thus the effects of the geysers), lurks here. It attacks anyone wearing an object made of glass, or carrying gems, trying to grab and eat them.

`encounter: 1: Xorn`

 - [ ]  **9. Broken Tower**

- A daelkyr (use the statistics of an ultroloth with at-will confusion if it engages in combat) has broken free of its prison in Khyber. It is turning the area in a few mile radius into its own personal canvas; creating masterpieces of reshaped flesh. Plants, animals, and the ground itself, have all been stretched into grotesque shapes and changed into striking arrays of colors. Pairs of dolgrims patrol the area, but generally avoid conflict and instead lead anyone they encounter back to their master’s base of operations. At the center of the region is a small fort. The daelkyr lives here along with a dozen dolgrim servants and a pair of dolgaunts.
- The daelkyr is curious and interested in finding new subjects for its artwork more than anything. They are welcoming and communicate telepathically with the characters offering to transform them into beautiful new forms. They don’t take no for an answer. Anyone who accepts is given a random Boon and gains a minor physical alteration (such as a height, skin, eye, or hair color change). If the daelkyr is threatened, or the characters refuse the invitation, they order the dolgaunts, or a group of four dolgrim, to fight the characters to the death. Afterwards, they continue parleying, unfazed. The daelkyr will fight only to defend themselves and only when all of their minions are dead.

`encounter: 2: Dolgrim`

`encounter: 2: Dolgaunt, 12: Dolgrim`

 - [ ]  **10. Greenland**

- In a small abandoned town of ten houses lives a close-knit community of two dozen warforged commoners. Not needing food or water, the group lives here in relative safety, self sufficient and separate from the nations of Khorvaire. The community is organized around a forge used for repairing community members. The forge is run by twin warforged gladiators named Hammer and Anvil. They are also the leaders of the enclave. Additionally, a warforged priest of the Becoming God, named the Architect, runs a small shrine and serves as a spiritual leader.
- Non-warforged characters are viewed with suspicion. The enclave doesn’t want the outside world to find them. However, they will allow outsiders to stay the night and rest. They are also willing to sell or barter for wooden, leather, and metallic items found in the Player’s Handbook. If the PCs manage to befriend the warforged, they will find them to be quite knowledgeable and talkative about the surrounding terrain including knowledge of a similar warforged enclave within a few dozen miles.
- If the characters spend at least a day visiting the enclave, one of the following events occurs. Roll a d6:
	1. A warforged named Mason is murdered. Everyone suspects the PCs.
	2. Chip, an apprentice wizard, asks to join the PCs to learn more about the world.
	3. A holy day is celebrated with lots of incense burned and partying in the streets.
	4. Several scavengers return with scrap, with a pack of `encounter: 2d4: Rust Monster` chasing them.
	5. A trader from the Lord of Blades Enclave arrives.
	6. A rust storm blows through town. Any non-warforged characters, who are immune to the worst effects of the storm, are enlisted to board up the houses.

 - [ ]  **11. Whitehearth**

- Four black metal posts, each 50 feet tall, are all that remain of a House Cannith research site. The posts radiate an aura of divination magic. Anyone passing within half a mile of this site cannot properly orient themselves via any means, including using rivers, roads, or other landmarks. A compass or a character with the keen mind feat will get random results each time they are consulted.
- Roll a d6 to see who or what is encountered here. They are generally lost and irritable and may attack. After leaving the site, determine randomly which direction the characters travel.
	1. No one is currently lost here. Well, except you.
	2. Six skeletons from a necromancy unit from Karrnath, which have been trying to return to their encampment for five years, but are too unintelligent to realize they are lost.
	3. Lost adventuring party of a spy (Janelle), scout (Markoh), and veteran (Andreas).
	4. An oaken bolter which survived the disaster that destroyed the research site.
	5. Six reef sharks which are living on land somehow.
	6. A near-starving brown bear.

 - [ ]  **12. Barren Keep**

- This tower once served as an advance guard tower against invasions of Cyre. It stands in partial disrepair and is covered in a thick layer of ivy. If the ivy is hacked away, vine blights emerge and attack.
- The interior of the tower has a few bodies of humans in scale armor wearing the livery of Cyre. They have no discernable wounds. The second floor of the tower contains a pair of dead gnomes and a House Sivis Sending Stone which was used during the war to send warning messages. House Sivis would be willing to pay 1000 gp for the recovery of one of these stones.

`encounter: 1d6: Vine Blight`

 - [ ]  **13. Seaside**

- The town of Seaside contains a dozen or so buildings, including a shrine dedicated to the Sovereign Host, a general store, and an inn. The buildings are intact and well-maintained, but the occupants of the town are all undead and are mostly skeletons and zombies. The townsfolk continue to go about their daily business, running the stores, tending their fields, and worshipping at the shrines. The people in the town are extremely friendly and willing to go out of their way to help in any way they can. It’s been months since any traders came through, and they’re excited for news from the outside world.
- The townsfolk are completely unaware that they are no longer alive and don’t realize that Cyre is dead. If somehow forced to acknowledge these facts, or to reflect on their memories of the Day of Mourning, they lose their sanity and lash out against anyone alive. If left alone, the town is a perfectly safe place to trade for equipment and provisions and rest up. The Mournland’s effects on rests do not affect Seaside.
- Notable NPCs include Jerediah Semet (LN male skeleton), the town’s mayor, an alchemist named Annallisse (N female apprentice mage with the undead type), and Sovereign Anaxander (NG female ghoul), the town’s priest.

 - [ ]  **14. Shaelas Tiraleth**

- The characters encounter the remnants of a party of elves from Valenar, who sought to glorify their ancestors by battling the horrors of the Mournland. Their leader is Masheeni (LG female valenar elf gladiator), and she is leading four remaining warriors (N male and female valenar elf tribal warriors) back toward Valenar. All are suffering from two levels of exhaustion. They’ve lost about half of their members, including their priest (whose body they are carrying), but all believe the trip to have been a rousing success. They are willing to trade for any aid they can get:
	- They’re willing to purchase services or provisions with the 500 gp they carry.
	- They have 3 spell scrolls of *[[greater restoration]]* and a scroll of *[[raise dead]]*, which they would like to use to raise their priest, but none in the group can cast from it.
	- They know the location of several interesting ruins in the Mournland, including some “safe” nearby locations where they've killed or driven away all of the nearby monsters.
	- Masheeni carries a [[Medallion of Thoughts]] which she would gladly trade for a magical blade.

 - [ ]  **15. Field of Ruins**

- Shouts of battle and the ringing of steel are audible long before the battle can be seen. Rows of soldiers wearing the colors of Cyre and Aundair face off; the soldiers from Cyre are defending a hilltop with bows and spears while the Aundairans prepare a charge from the bottom. A group of four airborne phantom knights (LN human illusionists with scorching ray memorized instead of phantasmal force) from Aundair ride phantom steeds while softening up the defenders with spells. The entire battlefield is free of the mists that infect the Mournland.
- The entire battle has been transported forward to the present time. None of the combatants have any knowledge of the past few years or the end of the Last War. If the characters intervene in the battle, they find themselves between the warring factions (treat skirmishers as guards, with 3d6 per side). Each side is lead by a knight who is not interested in anything but winning the battle, but a DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion) can persuade them to listen to reason. The players may also help the knights achieve victory to gain favors.
- Regardless of what intervention they may enact, if the characters return here, they find the battle replaying itself out in front of them. Because of this effect, any soldiers convinced to leave may encounter duplicates of themselves.

 - [ ]  **16. Crimson Water**

- Cutting through the surrounding terrain is a staggered line of 20-foot wide shallow ponds filled with reddish water. A few animals, covered in tumors and extra eyes, gather around the ponds and drink. Whatever type of animals these creatures were is unrecognizable.
- A large crimson lake is the primary feature, where a large shadow in the water blips in and out of existence.

`encounter: 1: Nihileth`

 - [ ]  **17. Jarp**

- A half-finished quori monolith stands here. It consists of an outer shell which is only half complete and a central crystal column. All around the hanbalan lie the dead bodies of human workers from the continent of Sarlona. The bodies look as though they died minutes ago and show no sign of injury or decay.
- One of the people, an overseer named Harakkha, is merely unconscious. She is well-dressed and wears a pair of bracers of defense along with 250 gp worth of jewelry. The overseer is an Inspired possessed by a tsucora quori. She is disoriented, since she thinks she is still in Sarlona, and may lash out by attacking the characters.
- The monolith has many properties including:
	- If the PCs investigate the interior of the monolith, they discover that its central crystal column is partially charged with psychic energy.
	- A DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check can be used to deactivate or activate its self-destruct sequence. The latter causes the column to explode after 10 minutes dealing `dice: 8d6` thunder damage to everything inside the monolith’s shell
	- Either way, tampering with the monolith attracts the attention of a pair of intellect devourers; the next encounter will be the Intellect Devourer Ambush.
	- Anyone sleeping within 5 miles of the monolith while it is active and intact has the same dream: a summary of the news in Sarlona, announcements of festivals, and songs of praise for the Inspired lords of Riedra who have brought peace and prosperity to the land.

`encounter: 1: Tsucora Quori`

 - [ ]  **18. Glowing Chasm**

>This vast crack in the earth emits a cold purple or violet light that seems to come from impossibly deep underground. Its source is unknown and cannot be seen from the top. The light can be seen from miles away.

- Evidence of draconic presence, including errand pale white scales, can be found with a DC 10 Investigation or Nature check. A DC 15 check reveals that the evidence tracks south, toward Kalazart (and eventually the Cavern of Flesh).

##### 3: The Cavern of Flesh

 - [ ]  **Mouth of Banners**
>The cavern itself is natural, a series of hollow hills possibly inhabited by another rogue dragon before the Day of Mourning. Hundreds of tattered standards have been collected from battlefields and hung like banners around the cave entrance and from the ceiling within. Most have faded to gray and all are mud-stained and tattered. From time to time, mud-slicked banners come loose and flutter down like giant bats, possibly startling trespassers. Stones, refuse, and old bones have frozen into the chamber’s floor, mixed with a slick coating of mud.

- The cavern entrance measures 25 feet in height, and extends 30 feet into the hillside. Haze-of-Death drags in mud every time he returns, forming a slick coating over the frozen, bumpy floor that makes for treacherous footing. This area counts as difficult terrain. Characters can identify any still-visible symbols on the banners as crests of Cyran and other Five Nations’ noble houses with a successful DC 15 History check.
- Drugor (male human rogue) greets anyone who enters the cave (unless they succeed on a DC 18 Stealth check in which case he doesn't notice them and can be found in the Sleeping Chamber below). Drugor usually obeys Haze-of-Death out of fear, addled thoughts of escape and his old life drifting through his mind. Sometimes, though, he is convinced that he actually is a Cyran noble who somehow escaped death and has since partnered up with his old dragon friend.
- When the players enter, roll on the table below to determine the current whereabouts of Haze-of-Death.
- If the players were to anger Drugor, he might yell for Haze-of-Death to come assist him. If Haze-of-Death is nearby, the battle may start early, otherwise Drugor just becomes confused and despondent.

| dice: 1d4 | Haze-of-Death Location                                                                                   |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | Flying over the Mournland (can be seen in the distance if looking outside with a DC 15 Perception check) |
| 2         | Sleeping in the Central Chamber of the Cavern of Flesh (can be found in the scene below, still sleeping) |
| 3         | Traipsing through a random Mournland location, destroying any living thing he encounters                 |
| 4         | In the Central Chamber of the Cavern of Flesh, awake, but seemingly wrapped in hallucinations            |

 - [ ]  **Central Chamber**

- Haze-of-Death sleeps in this enormous chamber, which extends 40 feet upward, almost to the top of the hill, and 60 feet across. He has built up a giant “nest” of ice along one side of the chamber with repeated applications of his breath weapon. When Haze-of-Death goes hunting, he sometimes leaves an animated breath weapon behind to guard his lair, especially if Drugor stays as well. As a result, a thin film of ice covers the floor. A few masticated bones and other rubble lie frozen in the ground.
- Describe this room based on the Haze-of-Death location roll. If he's not here, Drugor should be found here if not before, and should be more relaxed if he has already been discovered. He does not seem concerned when the Animated Breath attacks the party.

`encounter: 1: Animated Breath` (Cold)

 - [ ]  **Hoard of Mourning**

- Haze-of-Death keeps his pitiful hoard in a side chamber. In his madness, the dragon believes priceless riches abound within; in truth, the “hoard” is little more than a junkheap. Dented helmets, rusted shields, broken weapons, smashed warforged components, and other trash lie in a massive pile — tribute to Haze-of-Death’s obsession and broken mind.
- One particular item of value, although Haze-of-Death is unware, is hidden in the trash — the Dragonic Phylactery of Arstyvrax. A *[[detect magic]]* spell or DC 20 Arcana check would reveal the presence of necromancy magic emanating from the hoard.
- Haze-of-Death values his hoard of junk as much as any other dragon’s heaps of gold and silver. Were a creature to remove even the smallest tarnished buckle from the pile, Haze-of-Death would fly into a rage and neither eat nor sleep until he had tracked down the thief and reclaimed his property.

 - [ ]  **Sleeping Chamber**

- This tiny chamber, little more than a niche in the wall, serves as Drugor’s sleeping area. Drugor suffers from horrible nightmares, though and prefers to sleep as little as possible. He spends his waking hours serving Haze-of-Death or wandering aimlessly through the lair.
- Drugor poses no real threat to any heroes strong enough to challenge Haze-of-Death, but he could serve as a source of information about the dragon. Talking with the man is difficult, especially while he is under the impression that he is a surviving Cyran noble. A con artist and petty thief in his old life, Drugor possesses just enough talent and force of personality to make his delusions believable.

 - [ ]  **Back Door**

- This winding tunnel leads out of the lair by a hidden opening. Haze-of-Death has ordered Drugor to always use the rear entrance, but the poor man hates the sight of the dangling corpses. He requires great convincing (or a direct order from Haze-of-Death) to use this passage, but also refuses to disobey his master by using the main entrance.

##### 4: Confrontation with Haze-of-Death

 - [ ]  **Battle with Haze-of-Death**

- The battle is challenging, not just physically but emotionally, as Haze-of-Death is both a victim and a monster. The battle begins normally, but as Haze-of-Death becomes more injured, the players start to get insight into his mind and past.
- If players engage positively with these memories (e.g., showing mercy, discussing his past aloud), they might weaken Haze-of-Death's aggressive instincts, opening up non-lethal resolution options.

`encounter: 1: Adult White Dragon`

 - [ ]  **Draconic Essense**

- At specific health thresholds (75%, 50%, 25%, 10%), a burst of necrotic energy is released from the draconic phylactory in the nearby Hoard of Mourning. Characters caught in the burst must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC starting at 12 and increasing by 2 each time). On a failure, they experience a powerful flashback of Kazdurakashtan’s memories, suffering `dice: 1d8` psychic damage but gaining insights into his past. On a success, they absorb a fragment of his draconic essence, gaining a temporary boon (roll on the table below).

| dice: 1d6 | Flashbacks (presented in roughly chronological order)                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | The party watches as Kazdurakashtan argues with other dragons of The Chamber about the necessity of helping the lesser races of Khorvaire, much like Vvaraak once did. They don't agree, and Kazdurakashtan decides to leave Argonnessen.                         |
| 2         | The party sees a young Kazdurakashtan courageously defending a group of baby giants from a number of snow golems. This alludes to his former role as head of the Order of the Ivory Scale.                                                                        |
| 3         | The party discovers Kazdurakashtan settling down in Cyre and developing a friendship with a Cyran professor. They bond over their interest in The Chamber, of which Kazdurakashtan used to be a member, and their interest in negotiating an end to the Last War. |
| 4         | The party witnesses the moment Haze-of-Death was twisted by the energies of the Day of Mourning, experiencing his agony and confusion as his form and mind were warped.                                                                                           |
| 5         | The party observes Haze-of-Death clawing his way out of the Glowing Chasm, extreme pain searing his face as scales and flesh are pulled from his body, and tears rolling from his eyes.                                                                           |
| 6         | The party sees Haze-of-Death pouncing on a human they would recognize as Drugor. A look of joy on his face as he recognizes his old friend the Cyran professor turns to painful confusion and then rage, as he drags the man back to his lair.                    |

| dice: 1d4 | Temporary Boons                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | **Dragon's Wisdom**. The player gains temporary insight into draconic magic, granting advantage on Arcana checks and resistance to psychic damage. Lasts until the end of the encounter.                                               |
| 2         | **Fury of the Betrayed**. Channeling the emotional turmoil of Kazdurakashtan's past, a player can invoke a burst of rage, gaining extra (double) damage on their next attack. Single use, and must be declared before the attack roll. |
| 3         | **Draconic Focus**. Gain a temporary boost to concentration, giving advantage on saving throws to maintain concentration on spells. Lasts until the end of the encounter.                                                              |
| 4         | **Shield of the White Wyrm**. Once during the encounter, the player can use a reaction to gain resistance to damage from a single attack, reflecting a momentary shield of icy energy. Single use.                                     |

##### 5: Revelation and Return

 - [ ]  **Phylactery Chamber**

- Upon defeating or bypassing Haze-of-Death, the party finds the Draconic Phylactery in the nearby Hoard of Mourning. Interacting with the phylactery grants visions of Arstyvrax's plans, the nature of the Shadowmasters, and the extent of the necromantic dragon's ambition.
- Even before becoming fully a lich, the phylactery is of benefit to its still-living creator. If they die by any cause, their soul returns to the jar, regardless of how far away or what obstacles before it. They can then reemerge and possess any dead body in the vicinity, whether their own, another's, an animal's, or an outsider's.
- Arstyvrax created the phylactery, and entrusted it with his old friend, for this reason - to protect his still living body while he did his work. And if anything were to happen to him while making preparations, he would re-emerge far from the threat where no one would possibly find him.
- By the end of these scenes, the players should have a full understanding of Arstyvrax's past and plans. Summarize his page's [[Arstyvrax#History|History]] section as a serious of vague visions.

 - [ ]  **Escaping the Mournland**

- The players may now know their way back out of the Mournland (if they've been mapping along the way). Either way, they will need to backtrack and navigate the pointcrawl once more, and then move back through the Dead Grey Mists. A vapor lynx should be there, disappointed that they're leaving (with combat being entirely optional).

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  Haze-of-Death lairs in a place in the Mournland called the Cavern of Flesh. Once a series of hollowed-out hills, Haze-of-Death decorated them with the bodies of soldiers caught in the Mournland. The front entrance is also decorated with hundreds of battle standards.
 - [ ]  Haze-of-Death is an occasional hazard to people entering the Mournland, like Ikar's Salvage or the Khraal Lords. However, he doesn't see the Lord of Blades and his minions as prey, and so the warforged mainly leave the dragon alone. He is constantly paranoid, seeing almost everyone as an enemy trying to steal his hoard.

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* [[Kazdurakashtan (Haze-of-Death)]], who was in Cyre on the Day of Mourning and was morphed into a monstrous version of himself.
* Monsters: Vapor Lynx (ToB1), Corpse Mound (ToB1), Death Butterfly Swarm (ToB1), Living Spells
* Incorporate some localized time travel shenanigans, so the players can maybe see some of the history of Haze-of-Death and/or Arstyvrax? And use this to tie the area to Staff in a fun way?

| dice: 1d8 | Random Mournland Encounter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | `encounter: 1: Living Cloudkill`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 2         | `encounter: 1: Lich Hound`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 3         | `encounter: 1: Living Lightning Bolt`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 4         | `encounter: 1: Death Butterfly Swarm`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 5         | `encounter: 1: Gem Stalker`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 6         | Encounter with [[Lord of Blades (Aaren d’Cannith)]] and The Blades (roleplay opportunity)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 7         | Encounter with [[Ikar the Black]] (opportunity to trade and roleplay)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 8         | You see a dull white dragon flying overhead (Haze-of-Death). Looking closely, the dragon’s flesh appears to be rotting, and he's surrounded by mist. It flies a hundred feet overhead at top speed ignoring everything happening on the ground. If somehow tracked, it leads the party to the Cavern of Flesh. |
^mournland-random-encounter

### References

