 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The final battle will be a multi-phase combat and roleplay encounter of some sort (scenes below), taking place near the Pit of Five Sorrows in Argonnessen.

### Characters and Locations

* **[[Arstyvrax]]**

* **The Pit of Five Sorrows, Argonnessen**

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **The Pit of Five Sorrows: Armies of the Dragon Factions**

* Use mass combat mechanics from Kingdoms and Warfare from MCDM.
* Arstryvrax and the topaz dragons can be seen in a tower in the distance, trying to complete their ritual to release Tiamat.

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple**

- The interior of the temple is a single open expanse. Though divided into distinct areas, the cathedral-like space has no interior walls or upper floors. Five chapels are devoted to one of the five aspects of Tiamat and the matching branch of chromatic dragons, all surrounding a central apse. The apse and all five chapels rise into separate spires, culminating in the sanctuary at the pinnacle of the central spire. Level 2 as shown on the map is a zone 50 feet above ground level; level 3 is a zone 100 feet above ground level, both of which can be reached only by flying.
- Each of the areas below correspond to a numbered location from the Tiamat's Temple map from Rise of Tiamat (pg. 84), although not the same number as what's represented in the table in that book (what's below is a simplified version). The Lower Level is open space that simply allows access to the areas above it. Each Chapel is on Level 2 and contains a colored crystal that matches the Chapel color, guarded by a topaz dragon of a level based on the associated factions' morale (see table below). The Sanctuary is on Level 3 and is where Arstyvrax emerges from.
	- Lower Level (2)
	- Black Chapel (11)
	- Blue Chapel (8)
	- Green Chapel (10)
	- Red Chapel (12)
	- White Chapel
	- Obsidian Chapel
	- Sanctuary

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Arstyvrax, First Phase**

* Players approach the tower and try to stop Arstyvrax's ritual, by attempting to break his concentration with attacks. For every attack that hits Arstyvrax, roll a Concentration check (DC 10, +6) - any failures result in a -1 to the obsidian dragons' faction morale.
* While the players are focusing on Arstryvrax, the topaz dragons are beginning their ritual around large colored crystals. 
* Even if they succeed, the ritual is partially completed which releases an Avatar of Tiamat.
* At half of his HP, Arstryvrax flies off, leaving the players to deal with the Avatar.

`encounter: 1: Arstyvrax`

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Aspect of Tiamat**

* Appears as sort of a shadow of the Overlord as the ritual works to finish her release. On her initiative turn, she uses only her Claw attack (adding a second claw if things go south) against whoever has most recently attacked a crystal, which appears as a spectral disembodied dragon claw, and can reach anyone in the tower. If she manages to grapple someone, she uses a Mythic Action (at the next story appropriate time in the following turn) to use her Hurl Through Khyber action to send the PC to a random demiplane of Khyber.
	* At the halfway point of the fight, the Aspect of Tiamat uses her Chromatic Flare ability to channel elemental energy through all of the crystals, targeting whoever is closest to a crystal with that elemental damage type.
* Each of the colored crystals that have been set up around the tower can be attacked and eventually destroyed in order to put an end to the ritual and prevent Tiamat's release. There are six crystals colored white, black, green, blue, red, and purple, much like the heads of Tiamat plus one for the obsidian dragon himself. Each crystal (or its associated colored head on the Aspect of Tiamat, where appropriate) can be attacked in order to do damage to the Aspect. Each time a crystal is destroyed, the destroying player must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take `dice: 5d12`damage of a type that matches the crystal/head's color (or half as much on a successful save).
	* AC 17, 50 HP for each crystal
* The sixth purple colored crystal can only be observed with a DC 18 Investigation check, due to it being hidden under a pile of rubble in the middle of the tower. This crystal is actually a smaller part of a larger whole Khyber crystal (see below) and isn't necessary to complete this phase of the fight, but if found and attacked will still contribute toward progress in this phase (while not being able to be destroyed).

`encounter: 1: Aspect of Tiamat`

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Arstryvrax, Second Phase**

* Once the ritual is ended, or the Avatar dealt with, Arstryvrax returns to finish off the players!
* He can be discovered (DC 15 Perception check) to be drawing power from the souls that he and his topaz dragon have collected, which are being stored in a large Khyber crystal at the base of the tower. Destroying the Khyber shard harms Arstyvrax.
	* AC 17, HP 100. When destroyed, anyone within 10 feet must suceed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take `dice:6d12` necrotic damage.

`encounter: 1: Arstryvrax`

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ] -

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* The Pit of Five Sorrows is a chasm in Argonnessen that is the prison for the Overlord Tiamat, the Daughter of Khyber. The chasm is heavily guarded by the forces of the Light of Siberys.
	* Should set up the Pit of Five Sorrows as a front between the topaz dragons (led by Loredrake Arstyvrax) and the Light of Siberys (led by Lightkeeper Dolarashynach).
	* Also work in the Talons of Tiamat somewhere. Likely as a foil to the Light of Siberys to explain why they haven't already squashed the topaz dragons and their plan.
* Final adventure where the players confront the topaz dragons and try to prevent their ritual to release Tiamat. Mechanics should really lean into the idea of order versus chaos.
* Monsters: Gem Stalker (FtoD), Andrenjinyi (ToB1), Haugbui (ToB1), Gray Render (CR 12, MotM), Displacer Beast (CR 3, MM), Umber Hulk (CR 5, MM), Venom Troll (CR 7, MotM), dinosaurs, dire animals, and all types of dragons.

### References

* Dragons of Eberron
