 #adventure 

### Background and Hook(s)

* The final battle will be a multi-phase combat and roleplay encounter of some sort (scenes below), taking place near the Pit of Five Sorrows in Argonnessen.
* First, the players need to face off against the various dragons armies that have gathered here, with varying strength based on the morale they've built up during the game. Second, they'll approach Tiamat's Temple and fight a number of topaz dragons who are assisting Arstryvrax with his ritual by guarding magical crystals inside their Chapels. Third, Arstryvrax himself approaches the Chapels in an attempt to complete the ritual. Fourth, the players will have the deal with the summoned Aspect of Tiamat from Arstryvrax's only partially successful ritual. Finally, Arstryvrax himself returns in order to finish off the party.

### Characters and Locations

* **[[Arstyvrax]]**
* **Lightkeeper Dolarashynach**. The Eternal Flame and ultimate leader of the Light of Siberys, Dolarashynach is a female great wyrm silver dragon with levels in cleric, and a follower of of the Dragon God Bahamut. She leads the force from Verthicha'vivex ("the Mountain of Victory") within the Light of Siberys.

* **The Pit of Five Sorrows, Argonnessen**

### Scenes and Situations

 - [ ]  **The Pit of Five Sorrows: Armies of the Dragon Factions**

* Use mass combat mechanics from Kingdoms and Warfare from MCDM.
* Arstryvrax and the topaz dragons can be seen in a tower in the distance, trying to complete their ritual to release Tiamat.
* First, the basic draconic units (4 units versus 13 PC units):
	* Kobold Infantry
	* Dragonborn Infantry
	* Elite Dragonborn Infantry
	* Wyvern Calvary
* Second, the Young Dragon units, with Morale based on Faction Morale (9 units versus whatever remains of 13 PC units):
	* White (+3)
	* Black (+7)
	* Green (+7)
	* Red (+9)
	* Blue (+9)
	* Brass (+8)
	* Bronze (+8)
	* Copper (+8)
	* Gold (+6)
* Finally, the Adult Dragon units (where leaders are able to fight), with Morale based on Faction Morale (6 units versus whatever remains of 13 PC units):
	* Black (+7)
	* Green (+7)
	* Blue (+9)
	* Bronze (+8)
	* Copper (+8)
	* Gold (+6)

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Performing the Ritual**

- The interior of the temple is a single open expanse. Though divided into distinct areas, the cathedral-like space has no interior walls or upper floors. Five chapels are devoted to one of the five aspects of Tiamat and the matching branch of chromatic dragons, all surrounding a central chapel. The chapel and all five surrounding chapels rise into separate spires, culminating in the sanctuary at the pinnacle of the central spire. Level 2 as shown on the map is a zone 50 feet above ground level; level 3 is a zone 100 feet above ground level, both of which can be reached only by flying.
- Each of the areas below correspond to a numbered location from the Tiamat's Temple map from Rise of Tiamat (pg. 84), although not the same number as what's represented in the table in that book (what's below is a simplified version). The Lower Level is open space that simply allows access to the areas above it. Each Chapel is on Level 2 and contains a colored crystal that matches the Chapel color, guarded by a topaz dragon of a level based on the associated factions' morale (see table below). The Sanctuary is on Level 3 and is where Arstyvrax emerges from.
	- Lower Level (2)
	- Black Chapel (11, southwest)
	- Blue Chapel (8, north)
	- Green Chapel (10, southeast)
	- Red Chapel (12, west)
	- White Chapel (9, east)
	- Central Chapel (7)
	- Sanctuary (13)

| Morale | Encounter                             |
| ------ | ------------------------------------- |
| 1-3    | No enounter. Chapel is unprotected.   |
| 4-7    | `encounter: 2: Topaz Dragon Wyrmling` |
| 8-11   | `encounter: 1: Young Topaz Dragon`    |
| 12+    | `encounter: 2: Young Topaz Dragon`    |

- To successfully complete their part of the ritual, the topaz dragons must successfully focus the summoning ritual for 10 rounds after the party enters the Temple of Tiamat. Each round, at least two dragons (including Arstyvrax himself) must use an action to perform the ritual in order for it to be successfully focused for that round, helping guide Tiamat across the planes.
- At the end of the round, if no topaz dragon has used their action to perform the ritual, the khyber dragonshard in the Central Chapel (area 7) stops glowing and no progress on the ritual is made.

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Arstyvrax, First Phase**

* Arstyvrax flies down from the Sanctuary platform above, and attempts to complete the ritual that his topaz dragons had started. The players need to stop it by attempting to break his concentration with attacks. For every attack that hits Arstyvrax, roll a Concentration check (DC 10, +6) - any failures result in a -1 to the obsidian dragons' faction morale as well as the inability to attempt performance of the ritual on his next turn. If able, the obsidian dragon will always use his action or a legendary action to keep the ritual going (needing only himself to add 1 to the ritual count in this phase).
* At this point he should only move between the Central Chapel and the Lower Level as he attempts to complete the ritual. He should focus on simple attacks like Bites and Claws if provoked, and save his Legendary Actions for the ritual unless absolutely needed for something else.
* At half of his HP, or zero morale for his faction (whichever occurs first), Arstryvrax flies off having only partially completing his ritual. This leaves the players to deal with the Avatar of Tiamat that has been summoned. The Avatar's HP depends on how much of the ritual was completed, with it only having full HP if all 10 rounds of the ritual were finished - with only 9 round it will have 90% of its HP and it only 5 rounds got done then it has 50% (and so forth).

`encounter: 1: Arstyvrax`

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Aspect of Tiamat**

* The Aspect appears as sort of a shadow of the Overlord located on the Central Chapel. On her initiative turn, she uses only her Claw attack (adding a second claw if things go south) against whoever has most recently attacked a crystal, which appears as a spectral disembodied dragon claw, and can reach anyone in the tower. If she manages to grapple someone, she uses a Mythic Action (at the next story appropriate time in the following turn) to use her Hurl Through Khyber action to send the PC to a random demiplane of Khyber.
	* At the halfway point of the fight, the Aspect of Tiamat uses her Chromatic Flare ability to channel elemental energy through all of the crystals, targeting whoever is closest to a crystal with that elemental damage type.
* Each of the colored crystals that have been set up around the temple can be attacked and eventually destroyed in order to put an end to the ritual and prevent Tiamat's full release. Each crystal (or its associated colored head on the Aspect of Tiamat, where appropriate) can be attacked in order to do damage to the Aspect. Each time a crystal is destroyed, the destroying player must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take `dice: 5d12`damage of a type that matches the crystal/head's color (or half as much on a successful save).
	* AC 17, 50 HP for each crystal
* The sixth purple colored crystal can only be observed with a DC 18 Investigation check, due to it being hidden by the Aspect in the Central Chapel. This crystal is actually a small part of a larger whole Khyber crystal (see below) and isn't necessary to complete this phase of the fight, but if found and attacked will still contribute toward progress in this phase (while not being able to be destroyed).

`encounter: 1: Aspect of Tiamat`

 - [ ]  **Tiamat's Temple: Arstyvrax, Second Phase**

* Once the Avatar is dealt with, Arstyvrax returns to finish off the players!
* The first should start by Arstyvrax casting *antilife shell*, which the players may perceive (DC 15 Perception) as him drawing power from the souls that he and his topaz dragon have collected, which are being stored in a large Khyber crystal on the Central Chapel (formerly underneath the Avatar of Tiamat).
* Arstyvrax himself should remain mobile, flying or teleporting to the different colored Chapels as needed to get the upper hand on the players, and allowing range to use his desiccating breath ability. He should also use his charm ability on players as able, encouraging charmed players to protect the khyber crystal at all costs.
* Any damage done to the Khyber crystal is transferred to Arstyvrax (discovered with a DC 12 Arcana check), and the destroying blow does double damage to the dragon.
	* AC 17, HP 100. When destroyed, anyone within 10 feet must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or take `dice:6d12` necrotic damage.

`encounter: 1: Arstyvrax`

 - [ ]  **Conclusion: Light of Siberys**

- Lightkeeper Dolarashynach (female great wyrm silver dragon cleric), leader of the Light of Siberys, appears at the temple with her forces after the PCs defeat Arstyvrax. She is infinitely impressed with their ability to take on the situation before the Light's arrival. They had just started receiving reports of strange happenings in The Vast.
- The Lightkeeper can offer a favor to the players in exchange for their work, as well as a friendly relationship with the good dragons of the Light of Siberys.
- From here, the players can board Prince Lorrister's ship once again, and decide where they each go from here. Epilogue time!

 - [ ]  **Epilogue**

- Cover each of the PC's epilogues first, and adjust anything below as necessary.
- Serelath sets back out on his own to continue his adventures, refusing to tell anyone where he's going, allegedly for their protection.
* Valmoc returns to Sharn in order to smooth over relations between the draconic races and the humanoid ones. He anticipates having a lot of work over the coming years.
* Rannik leaves Zilargo, and without his leadership the Brass Bard troupes disband.
* Empress Corrine loses her bid for headmistress of Arcanis by a wide margin. She returns to Fairhold and the nation of Aundair never expands beyond its current borders.
* Prince Lorrister returns to the Lhazaar Principalities which have returned to their normal level of chaos as the influence of Kythri has waned and the blue dragons have returned to their normal homes.
* Our final scene:
	* Fade in on Chip standing next to a hippogriff in the Village of Arcanix. He's staring down intently at his enchanted book, and when the camera pans down to it, we see the names of all of his adventuring companions signed into the inside cover.
	* The camera follows Chip as he mounts the hippogriff and flies up to the Tower of Arcanix. He's met by a tall half-elf dressed in intricate black and amber robes, and flanked by an older male professor and his partner.
	* Tanila: "Welcome, Chip. As Headmistress of the Floating Towers of Arcanix, it is my pleasure to welcome you, our first warforged student, to the premiere training center for magewrights and wizards."
	* Chip: "Thank you Headmistress Tanila. The pleasure is all mine."
	* And Chip looks down longingly at his book one last time before disappearing into the blackness of the tower. The camera pans up, over the Floating Towers and the farming village below. Higher yet and over the quiet and quaint nation of Aundair. Higher still and over the continent of Khorvaire, orderly and devoid of dragon presence. We pan over to the nation of Argonnessen where the beauty of thousands of peaceful dragons in fight is... majestic. And finally, we pan over to the serene solitude of Sarlona, and the camera fades to black.

### Secrets and Clues
Check off as information is received. These should be gathered from Secrets and Clues in Characters and Locations above, as well as anything particular to the Scenes and Situations in this adventure.

 - [ ]  The Pit of Five Sorrows is a chasm in Argonnessen that is the prison for the Overlord Tiamat, the Daughter of Khyber. The chasm is heavily guarded by the forces of the Light of Siberys.

### DM Notes and Random Tables

* Order of play and steps to take:
	1) Set up the map as the players approach on their airship (leaving some room on the end closest to the DM screen for the Temple later), and explain that they can only get so close due to the dragons present. They'll need to set down several hundred feet away and fight their way closer.
	2) Hand out the players' units, their unit reference sheet, and the mass combat rules reference. Explain the rules, then randomly place the first phase units in the area of the map furthest from the DM screen, and allow the players to place their units. Start the combat!
	3) Once the first phase units are broken, introduce the second phase units by placing them randomly on the map, more in the middle of the map but still closer to the far end.
	4) Once the second phase units are broken, introduce the third phase units by placing them randomly on the map, slightly closer to the edge of the map closest to the DM screen but still mostly in the middle. Call for a group Perception check, with the highest roll seeing Arstryvrax and the topaz dragons in a tower in the distance, setting up their ritual to release Tiamat.
	5) Once the third phase units have been broken, place Tiamat's Temple on the end of the map closest to the DM screen, including the Chapels on risers. Place crystals on each Chapel, and topaz dragon tokens as appropriate. Set the stage and start the combat.
	6) After the topaz dragons have been defeated, introduce the Arstyvrax mini to the Central Chapel. At this point he should only move between the Central Chapel and the Lower Level as he attempts to complete the ritual.
	7) Once Arstyvrax is done, remove that mini and replace with the Tiamat mini on the Central Chapel. This mini remains stationary during this phase of the fight.
	8) Once the Avatar of Tiamat is defeated (explaining that it's faded from it more physical form but still present), replace that mini with the Arstyvrax mini perched on the khyber crystal, located on the Central Chapel. The khyber crystal will remain stationary at this point, but Arstyvrax moves around a lot during this phase.

### References

* Dragons of Eberron
* Rise of Tiamat
