---
gender: Male
race: Dragon
subrace: Chromatic (White)
alignment: Chaotic Evil
---
 #npc [[Draconic Factions]] [[The Chamber]]

>"I have named the wind that blows through my lair (Gusstrill) and speak to it often. It is my sole companion."

Kazdurakashtan was once a Chamber agent, but he decided to go rogue in Khorvaire to aid the humanoid races like the dragon Vvaraak once did. After establishing an order of dragon giants in the frozen north of Frostfell, he settled in Cyre because of a friendship with a Cyran professor, and hoped to negotiate an end to the Last War.

When the Day of Mourning struck Cyre, Kazdurakashtan survived, but the cataclysm horrifically injured and mutated the dragon, driving him insane and causing him to forget his original name. After clawing his way out of the Glowing Chasm, he now lurks deep in the Mournland, searching for treasures to add to his hoard, and devouring anyone who runs across his path. He is now known as Haze-of-Death. His body is now a dismal gray color, and he is constantly surrounded by mist similar to the mist surrounding the Mournland. Patches of scales have fallen off his body, and bony growths protrude from various joints.

Haze-of-Death is an occasional hazard to people entering the Mournland, like Ikar's Salvage or the Khraal Lords. However, he doesn't see the Lord of Blades and his minions as prey, and so the warforged mainly leave the dragon alone. He is constantly paranoid, seeing almost everyone as an enemy trying to steal his hoard.

Haze-of-Death lairs in a place in the Mournland called the Cavern of Flesh. Once a series of hollowed-out hills, Haze-of-Death decorated them with the bodies of soldiers caught in the Mournland. The front entrance is also decorated with hundreds of battle standards.

### Allies and Enemies

Haze-of-Death prefers solitude, and he lacks the sanity to command minions with any coherence. However, several months ago, the dragon stumbled on a band of salvagers led by Ikar the Black. Haze-of-Death pounced on the closest target, a human named Drugor (male human rogue), who bore a passing resemblance to Haze-of-Death’s Cyran friend. To Drugor’s cautious relief, the monstrous dragon didn’t eat him outright but instead carried Drugor back to his lair. Over the ensuing months, Drugor figured out that Haze-of-Death had mistaken him for someone else. The crafty rogue used his gift of guile to keep the dragon believing they were old friends until he could find a chance to escape. In the meantime, his proximity to the Glowing Chasm began to warp Drugor: After a few weeks, his mind began to fragment, and his body mutated not much later. Haze-of-Death uses Drugor to investigate areas too small for the mighty dragon to enter, and to “spy” on the enemies that he imagines surround him. Drugor usually obeys the dragon out of fear, addled thoughts of escape and his old life drifting through his mind. Sometimes, though, he is convinced that he actually is a Cyran noble who somehow escaped death and has since partnered up with his old dragon friend.

In Haze-of-Death’s mind, enemies abound. He sees ghosts everywhere, and sometimes hears the voices of his Chamber associates who tried to convince him not to leave them. When the hallucinations grow too strong to bear, Haze-of-Death takes wing and flies as far and fast as he can, destroying any living thing he encounters. Organizations that frequently enter the Mournland, such as Ikar’s Salvage and the Khraal Lords, don’t always come into conflict with Haze-of-Death. The dragon sometimes sleeps for weeks, but even when he is active, the sheer size of the Mournland makes encountering him unlikely. The more often such salvagers and pirates cross the dead-gray mist, though, the greater their chance of running into Haze-of-Death. If the dragon causes enough destruction, the survivors might hire brave adventurers to hunt down and slay the ravager.

Haze-of-Death has no true allies, but he is aware of the Lord of Blades and his minions. The warforged don’t smell like prey to Haze-of-Death, and the Lord of Blades sees no reason to venture into the dragon’s territory yet. For now, the two maintain an unofficial truce.

### Cavern of Flesh

On an ordinary battlefield, Haze-of-Death would undoubtedly make his lair in a cavern of bones. The weird properties of the Mournland, though, have instead created a horrific den of dead flesh. Out of the slick earth of the dragon’s cavern jut the corpses of soldiers, most clad in armor and some still clutching weapons. Torsos hang from the ceiling or protrude from walls, their limbs dangling to brush against creatures that move past.

1. Mouth of Banners: The cavern itself is natural, a series of hollow hills possibly inhabited by another rogue dragon before the Day of Mourning. Haze-of-Death decided to decorate the entrance to his lair in a manner befitting his imagined stature. He collected hundreds of tattered standards from the battlefield and hung them like banners around the cave entrance and from the ceiling within. Most have faded to gray and all are mud-stained and tattered, but in the dragon’s eyes, they flap brightly in a nonexistent breeze. The cavern entrance measures 25 feet in height, and extends 30 feet into the hillside. From time to time, mud-slicked banners come loose and flutter down like giant bats, possibly startling trespassers. Stones, refuse, and old bones have frozen into the chamber’s floor. Haze-of-Death drags in mud every time he returns, forming a slick coating over the frozen, bumpy floor that makes for treacherous footing. This area counts as difficult terrain. Characters can identify any still-visible symbols on the banners as crests of Cyran and other Five Nations’ noble houses with a successful DC 15 History check.
2. Central Chamber: Haze-of-Death sleeps in this enormous chamber, which extends 40 feet upward, almost to the top of the hill, and 60 feet across. He has built up a giant “nest” of ice along one side of the chamber with repeated applications of his breath weapon. When Haze-of-Death goes hunting, he sometimes leaves a living breath weapon behind to guard his lair, especially if Drugor stays as well. As a result, a thin film of ice covers the floor. A few masticated bones and other rubble lie frozen in the ground.
3. Hoard of Mourning: Haze-of-Death keeps his pitiful hoard in this side chamber. In his madness, the dragon believes priceless riches abound within; in truth, the “hoard” is little more than a junkheap. Dented helmets, rusted shields, broken weapons, smashed warforged components, and other trash lie in a massive pile — tribute to Haze-of-Death’s obsession and broken mind. A few items of value might be hidden in the trash, but if so, they reside there by chance. Haze-of-Death values his hoard of junk as much as any other dragon’s heaps of gold and silver. Were a creature to remove even the smallest tarnished buckle from the pile, Haze-of-Death would fly into a rage and neither eat nor sleep until he had tracked down the thief and reclaimed his property.
4. Sleeping Chamber: This tiny chamber, little more than a niche in the wall, serves as Drugor’s sleeping area. Drugor suffers from horrible nightmares, though and prefers to sleep as little as possible. He spends his waking hours serving Haze-of-Death or wandering aimlessly through the lair. Drugor poses no real threat to any heroes strong enough to challenge Haze-of-Death, but he could serve as a source of information about the dragon. Talking with the man is difficult, especially while he is under the impression that he is a surviving Cyran noble. A con artist and petty thief in his old life, Drugor possesses just enough talent and force of personality to make his delusions believable.
5. Back Door: This winding tunnel leads out of the lair by a hidden opening. Haze-of-Death has ordered Drugor to always use the rear entrance, but the poor man hates the sight of the dangling corpses. He requires great convincing (or a direct order from Haze-of-Death) to use this passage, but also refuses to disobey his master by using the main entrance.

### References

* https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Haze-of-Death
