---
type: Continent
region: "[[Eberron]]"
---

 #location #continent [[Eberron]]

Argonnessen is a continent to the far southeast of Khorvaire and southwest of Sarlona. It is the home of dragons, the oldest civilization in the world. The continent of Argonnessen is almost totally unexplored by any race of Khorvaire, and the continent is well-protected against intruders.

```leaflet
id: argonnessen-map
tileServer: https://eberronmap.johnarcadian.com/worldbin/eberron/{z}/{x}/{y}.jpg
height: 500px
lat: -35
long: 45
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 7
zoomDelta: 0.5
defaultZoom: 4
unit: miles
osmLayer: false
marker: default,-38.41055825094608,27.685546875000004,,The Light of Siberys,,
marker: default,-30.29701788337204,41.92382812500001,,The Vast,,
marker: default,-29.916852233070173,51.94335937500001,,The Tapestry,,
marker: default,-33.28461996888768,57.74414062500001,[[Vorel’Arux]],,,
marker: default,-42.29356419217008,57.83203125000001,,The Thousand,,
marker: default,-19.837122318967378,34.87060546875001,,Observatory of Tyrass,,
marker: default,-17.09879223767869,31.201171875000004,,Seren Island,,
marker: default,-19.715731277535006,39.475863084400736,,Totem Beach,,
marker: default,-23.241346102386135,53.876953125,,Strixhaven University,,
```

### Locations

* **The Light of Siberys**. The Light of Siberys is the stronghold of the army of Argonnessen that bears the same name. This land still bears scars from the battles during the Age of Demons. It was the seat of fiendish power in Argonnessen in the first age, and ruins built by twisted rakshasa hands are still found across the territory, The faithful gather around the Face of Eberron protected by spells so strong even the dragons cannot shatter them. Ancient battlefields are haunted by the ghosts of fallen dragons. Worst of all are the prisons of the Overlords; even in torpor and captivity, these fiends are so powerful that they corrupt the land above their vaults. Defending Argonnessen and the world from these horrors is a dangerous task, but the Soldiers of the Light stand strong against whatever darkness rises.
	* **Dragon Population**: 6,510. **Nondragon Population**: 7,200 (42% stone giant, 30% goblinoid, 16% dwarf, 6% human, 6% other).
	* **The Pit of Five Sorrows**. The Pit of Five Sorrows is a chasm in Argonnessen that is the prison for the Overlord Tiamat, the Daughter of Khyber. The chasm is heavily guarded by the forces of the Light of Siberys. The pit is one of the deepest chasms in Khyber, and is enclosed in a dome of force and protected by wards to prevent access. At the bottom of the pit is a massive Khyber shard containing Tiamat. Besides Tiamat, the chasm also contains many other powerful entities and secrets. The pit is guarded by dragon volunteers, who consider it a great honor. Dragons who complete their tour of duty to guard the pit are executed to ensure Tiamat does not corrupt them, but many dragons still volunteer in spite of this.
	* **Verthicha'vivex**. This fortress, called the “Mountain of Victory” by its inhabitants, is the primary bastion of the Light of Siberys. Lairs across its slopes house dozens of dragons, and in times of war it is capable of hosting hundreds. Dwarves and giants toil in its great forges, crafting an endless flow of weapons and magic items. Rituals and eldritch machines provide an uncountable array of mystical defenses. If any spot in Eberron is truly impregnable, it is Verthicha’vivex.
	* **Harvest of Pain**. This blasted wasteland is littered with immense bones and the stench of rotting flesh. Here an army of dragons faced the forces of Katashka the Gatekeeper, a rakshasa rajah and mighty necromancer. Katashka trapped the souls of his foes, binding them to the land in a gruesome parody of the rite of the draconic guardian. The entire region is considered to be coterminous with both Dolurrh and Shavarath, and under the effect of an *unhallow* spell. Dragon ghosts prowl the region, driven mad by their torment; these spirits attack anything unfortunate enough to cross their paths.
	* **Vale of the Fallen Rajah**. Both sides suffered innumerable casualties in the ancient war against the rakshasa overlords. In one epic battle, a colossal two-headed tiger-fiend named Yad-Raghesh was laid low south of the Dragon Spine. The rajah assaulted Argonnessen on a seemingly pointless rampage, leaving a swath of destruction in his wake. It took an entire battalion of the Light to fell him. Yad-Raghesh was the fi rst rajah slain in the great war, and his destruction was hailed as a grand victory. But elder Eyes of Chronepsis pondered the rajah’s suicidal attack uneasily, and their momentary surprise at his death was followed with wary concern. Their fears came home to roost centuries later when the land where Yad-Raghesh fell rotted away and a host of fiends spawned from the desolate stretch of corrupted earth. Since then, the Vale of the Fallen Rajah has been a thorn in the dragons’ side, where malignancy grows from foul roots and taints the earth and sky with evil. At present, the Vale is lair to the Talons of Tiamat and the countless fiends huddling in their fallen rajah’s dark shadow. The Light of Siberys patrols the perimeter incessantly doing their best to curb the spread of the Vale’s seeping rot. Still the darkness encroaches, gaining inches every year. Unless powerful magic is developed to contain it, it will eventually cover the face of Argonnessen.
* **The Tapestry**. The Tapestry is the youngest and smallest of the territories, born less than four thousand years ago. The dragons of the Thousand cling to their individual flights, and to the traditions and philosophies they see as the property of their lineage. The founders of the Tapestry wanted to bring dragons of different colors together, to set aside the idea that influence and age were inseparable, and to consider new ideas about religion and the Draconic Prophecy. They might have established themselves in the Vast, but many of the young dragons hated the violence found there. One of their main objections was the process of sending the young into the Vast, a tradition intended to weed out the weak. Initially, their efforts received little support from the Conclave, but they continued, predicting a great change in the shape of the Prophecy. Then the first dragonmarks appeared. In the wake of this event, the Conclave agreed to provide the young dragons with territory to continue their work. This land came to be known as the Tapestry of Thought, since it was intended as a land where all colors would come together as one. In time, the Conclave agreed to let the dragons of the Tapestry act abroad, and so the Chamber was born. The Tapestry is the home base of the Chamber, although some dragons of the Vast serve in that body. In the Tapestry, dragon mystics, prophets, and sages continue their work, while their elders defend the activities of the Tapestry and the Chamber before the Conclave. Both the Eyes of Chronepsis and the wyrms of the Conclave have grave doubts about allowing dragons to intentionally interfere with the outcome of the Prophecy, and many wish to shut down these activities and force the dragons of the Chamber to rejoin the Thousand or disperse into the Vast. For now, however, the Tapestry remains a crucible for new ideas.
	* **Dragon Population**: Varies (averages 600). **Nondragon Population**: 1,000 (39% human, 21% stone giant, 20% yuan-ti, 12% dwarf, 8% other).
	* **[[Vorel’Arux]]**. The Valley of Beauty is a meeting place where the dragons of the Tapestry come together to share ideas and conduct research. Although it is not a permanent residence, at least a dozen dragons can be found in the Valley. 
	* **The Crystal Library of Azalakardon**. The blue dragon Azalakardon was a brilliant prophet and one of the most strident voices promoting the Chamber’s active role in directing the path of the Prophecy. Then something happened — some claim he received a prophetic vision that he couldn’t accept, and it broke him inside. He became paranoid and reclusive, and one day he simply disappeared. Divination has produced no results, but it’s well known that his private sanctum is shielded with epic-level magics. Many say that his sanctum includes thousands of spellshard journals — the greatest collection of information on the Prophecy ever assembled, including the secret that drove him mad. By now Azalakardon must be dead of old age, but his library has never been found. What traps guard this trove of knowledge?
* **The Thousand**. The Thousand Flights of Argonnessen — more commonly called the Thousand — is the heart of the dragon homeland. The great wyrms of the Thousand inhabit lairs hewn in the Age of Demons, and the cries of soaring dragons fill the air. Dragons have lived here for hundreds of thousands of years; the territory is replete with monuments to wise wyrms and legendary prophets, shrines to the deities of Thir, and wondrous locations created by the greatest flames of the forge. Crafted through pure magic by colossal artisans, these edifices tower over the landscape. Flying across the Thousand is a breathtaking experience, but one few nondragons ever experience; intruders find scant welcome in the land of the Thousand.
	* **Dragon Population**: 36,300. **Nondragon Population**: 24,000 (35% human, 21% stone giant, 12% goblinoid, 9% orc, 8% dwarf, 6% gnome, 3% yuan-ti, 6% other).
	* **The Face of Eberron**. Near the southern shore of Argonnessen, a stone dragon’s head rises up from the ground. It is an unfamiliar shape, not quite conforming to any kind of dragon seen on Eberron. More shocking, however, is its size. The head stretches three miles from snout to horns. If it is the work of a sculptor, it would have had to be carved from a mountain range. Many priests of Thir say it is the face of Eberron, and that when she speaks it will be heard across the world. The children of Eberron consider it a holy site, and young initiates come here to learn the mysteries of nature magic from older children.
	* **The Great Aerie**. An artificial mountain raised from the earth by dragon magic, this is the meeting place of the Conclave. Built to hold a thousand dragons, it towers over the landscape. Despite its imposing bulk, it is often empty of dragons, inhabited only by the stone giants and iron golems that maintain it as they wait for their masters to return.
	* **The Valley of the Three**. This is the primary shrine of the draconic religion Thir. Statues of the Dragon Gods are arranged in a circle. Each is ten times the size of a colossal dragon, and each is inlaid with enough gemstones and precious metals to beggar a kingdom. Smaller statues of the fifteen Sovereigns stand at the feet of the greater deities. No images of the Progenitors are present. If questioned, a follower of Thir would be surprised. “Eberron is at your feet, Siberys above us, Khyber far below; what would be the point of trying to capture them in stone?”
* **The Vast**. In Draconic, this territory is called Dja’Valarach. In Common, it is typically translated as “the Vast,” interpreted as a great void or open space. But to a dragon, the word holds far deeper meaning. It is the space around a dragon in flight. It is the freedom to move in any direction. It hints at the infinite possibilities of the future, unbound and vast. That is what the Vast represents to the dragons of Argonnessen — freedom and uncertainty. It is a land without rules, where dragons are free to exult in their power and might, to match wits with other dragons and to rule over lesser creatures. First and foremost, the Vast is a proving ground. When a dragon of the Thousand becomes a young adult, it is given the choice to serve the Light of Siberys or to find its own way in the Vast. Those who go to the Vast must remain there for at least fifty years; those who survive to become adults might return to the Thousand and claim a lair within the dominion of their flight. However, some choose to remain in the Vast. These dragons prefer the challenge and uncertainty of life in this land. Life in the Thousand is stable, but stagnant. In the Vast, a dragon can be a conqueror, a tyrant, or a defender of the innocent. Every day could end in a life-or-death struggle, and for many dragons, that thrill is worth the risk. **Dragon Population**: Varies (approximately 4,000).
	* **Nondragon Population**: 142,900 (21% human, 17% goblinoid, 12% orc, 11% dwarf, 10% shifter, 9% stone giant, 3% yuan-ti, 3% changeling, 3% halfling, 3% gnome, 8% other).
	* **[[Io'lokar]]**. This fabled city — along with the ruins of its sister city, Io’vakas — lies in the south of the Vast, deep in Argonnessen.
	* **Fang Crater.** This pit is hundreds of miles across and punches deep into the earth. The stone rim is blackened and smooth, and volcanic gases rise from cracks and vents in the walls. The crater was caused by a planar incursion from Fernia, when forces from the Sea of Fire flooded into Argonnessen. The Light of Siberys repelled the assault, and the loredrakes sealed the rift. Still, a manifest zone to Fernia remains at the very center of the crater — a pit of lava more than a mile wide.
	* **Nestling Plateau**. This region is set aside for the youngest members of the Vast. It is essentially a training ground, where newcomers can test their wits against each other before claiming a dominion in the Vast proper. It’s rare to encounter a dragon older than a young adult here. However, if adventurers or other nondragons take advantage of this — slaying too many of the dragons or stealing their rightful prey — it should attract the attention of one of the great wyrms who maintains the Vast.
	* **Totem Beach**. Massive idols are spread across the northwestern coast of Argonnessen, carved to resemble the heads of mighty dragons. The Serens consider this sacred ground, and often gather along the beach to perform holy rites. Most of the Seren tribes have a patron (whom they consider to be a god) among the lords of the Vast. A few dominion lords have given their tribes permission to settle along the beach and the in Great Barrier Mountains, and these Serens fiercely defend this territory from foreign invaders. 
	* **Observatory of Tyrass**.
	* **Wyrmsfang Jungle**. The ancestral home of the rare Owlin, and where a manifest zone to Thelanis is hidden.
	* **Strixhaven University**.
* **Gix'kuhri**. Draconic for "Claw River", this river snakes across most of northern Argonnessen. It also serves to split The Tapestry from both The Thousand (near the city of Vorel'Arux) and The Great Barrier (near Strixhaven University).
* **Seren Island**.

### History

Argonnessen was a sanctuary for dragons in the aftermath of the war with the fiends and Overlords. About 60,000 years ago, the dragons began to emerge from the continent to spread across Eberron, encountering a number of emerging civilizations, the largest of which were the giants. Some dragons shared their knowledge with these new civilizations, while others conquered large swathes of the world. However the conquering dragons and the rivalries and competition between dragons created by the conquests caused the Daughter of Khyber to stir, leading the Conclave to put an end to the draconic expansions.

Since then, dragons have only sallied forth in large numbers from Argonnessen once, to destroy the giants of Xen'drik before they could unleash great magical power on their rebelling elf slaves.

### DM Notes

* 

### References

* Dragons of Eberron
