---
type: District
region: "[[Sharn]]"
---
 #location #district [[Sharn]]

Dura, one of the largest and oldest quarter of Sharn, rises from the ruins Shaarat and the Old Sharn that fell at the end of the War of the Mark. But as Sharn has grown over the centuries since that terrible conflict, Dura has been left behind. Today, many consider it a blight on the city, riddled as it is with poverty and crime. Dura is home to the majority of the lower classes of Sharn, and Lower Dura is generally considered to be little better than the Cogs.

Nonetheless, Dura is the gateway to the Dagger River. Cargo passes from Cliffside up through Dura, and most of the vast warehouse districts are located in the lower ward. The Bazaar of Dura is a source for all manner of unusual goods, including a wide range of illegal merchandise. Dura may be dangerous and dirty, but it is certainly a gateway to adventure.

The Race of Eight Winds has a major impact on the culture of this quarter. Residents born and raised in Dura are likely to be quite passionate about the race, and outsiders who settle in one of the districts of Dura would be wise to smile and nod when the subject comes up. As the time of the race draws near, Callestan and Hareth’s Folly become a hotbed of arguments and brawls.

### Characters

* **Kalaash’arrna** (NE male half-ore rogue). A cunning man with the Mark of Finding runs Information Acquisition for the House Tharashk in Underlook.
* **Keslo d’Ghallanda** (NN male halfling). Current Lord of Ghallanda Hall in Underlook.
* **Vundry** (NE female gnome). Runs a shop in the Bazaar of Dura, which on the surface, appears to be a pawnshop and curio store. Behind this facade, Vundry is one of the most reliable and well-connected fences in Sharn.
* **Aerela Tal** (LG female half-elf). A devoted priest who served with distinction in the war before retiring, maintains the temple known as the Citadel of the Sun in Hope's Peak.

### Locations (Districts)

#### Lower Dura
>Miserable and dangerous, this ward is hotbed of crime and violence.

Once the heart of Sharn, Lower Dura has slowly decayed as the rest of the city moved higher into the sky. Now it is a dark and dangerous place. Precarious and the Stores play important roles in the economy of the city, but the other districts have largely been left to fester and rot. Today, Lower Dura is home to the miserable poor. The Sharn Watch rarely risks patrolling Lower Dura, and the ward has become a center for criminal activities. The inhabitants of the ward may be shielded by gang allegiances, ties to one of the major criminal organizations, or the simple fact of having nothing to steal, but adventurers had best tread lightly and keep weapons near at hand when venturing here. Street violence occurs on a regular basis, amateur and professional cutpurses abound, and the Sharn Watch won't do much to help. A drawn blade and a successful DC 15 Intimidate check made when entering the district keep most of the rabble away — of course, the more dangerous criminals may see this as challenge and a promise of worthy loot.

In general, Lower Dura is a wretched place, and the city council does little to change that. Everburning torches light most of the district, as opposed to everbright lanterns, and in the worst neighborhoods many of the torches have been shattered or stolen. The ward shows its age, with cracked and worn streets, walls covered with mildew and graffiti, and other signs of neglect and wear and tear. Once Lower Dura was Sharn, and it included a garrison, manors for the city lords, a great temple, and other important buildings. Over the course of time these structures have been forgotten or repurposed. Lower Dura is full of the shadows of a glorious past that can barely be seen beneath the grime of the present.

##### Callestan (Inn district)
> The inns and taverns in this district are dark and grimy. Vermin run like water through the streets on a stormy day, including rats that scurry into shadows and foul men and women who study you with avaricious eyes.

When Sharn first rose from the ruins of Shaarat, Callestan was the center for trade and commerce. Today, it serves as a center for illegal trade and activity. The people who come to stay in the inns of Callestan sacrifice comfort to avoid the watchful eyes of the law, and many crooked deals are arranged in these dark taverns.

Until recently, Callestan was a stronghold of the Boromar Clan. The Tyrants and House Tarkanan both conducted business in the district, but the Boromars collected tribute from the merchants, and the fences, dreamlily dens, and gambling halls all owed allegiance to the halfling crime lords. Over the last two years, however, Daask has been posing a significant threat to the Boromar position in Callestan. Daask soldiers have beaten and killed Boromar operatives. Businesses with ties to the Boromars have been threatened, robbed, or even destroyed. Tarkanan and the Tyrants have taken advantage of this conflict to strengthen their own positions, expanding their businesses and contacts in the region.
Most of the average services and trades, and all of the upscale services and trades, offered in this district are criminal in nature. Callestan is the best place to go to find a fence, arrange for a burglary, or acquire forged papers. All of these things can be found elsewhere in the city, but in Callestan you don't have to worry about the Watch taking an interest. At this point, the district has become a crossroads for the four major criminal powers of Sharn, and one must deal with different groups for different services. House Tarkanan usually handles assassination and theft; forgery, deception, and prostitution are typically tied to the Tyrants; and smuggling, gambling, petty theft, and illegal goods are the realm of the Boromar Clan. Daask takes the role of a wild card that could intrude on any of these areas, but usually deal in violent crime.

- **The Broken Anvil Inn**: This small tavern with a handful of rooms to rent is carved into a bend in the wall of Mason’s Tower. House Ghallanda operates the inn, and the host is a matronly halfling named Eranna.
- **The Cracked Mirror**: The Cracked Mirror is a quiet, unremarkable inn, notable for the number of changelings and shifters among its clientele. In fact, the inn serves as a front for the Tyrants, and anyone who wants to do business with the Tyrants can find someone to talk to here. Any changeling receives a +1 bonus on all Intelligence checks made in the Cracked Mirror. A shrine dedicated to the Keeper is hidden in the basement of the Cracked Mirror, and many of the regular customers participate in secret ceremonies to this deity. The doppelganger Zaz (CN female doppelganger cleric 5) maintains the shrine. While Zaz gets along well with the Tyrants, her true loyalty lies with the Cabinet of Faces, the mysterious cult of the Traveler hidden in the shadows of Khorvaire. She generally helps the Tyrants, but she often sets her own bizarre schemes in motion. The owners and staff of the Cracked Mirror appear to change on a weekly basis — one week the innkeeper is a cheerful male dwarf named Mrogab, the next week she’s a surly female half-orc named Traaka. In fact, the staff consists of two doppelgangers (not counting Zaz) and six changelings. These eight take turns playing various roles at the inn and performing work for the Tyrants; they enjoy creating elaborate dramas with these roles, and each trip to the Cracked Mirror should involve colorful new personalities. While the on-duty staff generally assumes the forms of other races, most of the doppelganger or changeling clientele maintain their natural forms while at the inn.
- **Silvermist**: Officially, Silvermist is a dream parlor secretly owned by the Boromar Clan — a place where illusions and glamers are used for the entertainment of guests. The regular entertainers include Jix (CN female changeling expert 3), a changeling who uses her natural powers to perform unusual one-woman ballets and operas, and Salleon (CN male gnome illusionist 3), an illusionist who fascinates audiences with bizarre and compelling hypnotic patterns. In addition, Silvermist is a dreamlily den — a place where people can buy and use dreamlily without fear of the law.

##### Fallen (Slum)
> At first glance, this district looks like a ruin. Huge chunks of stone are scattered around the outer streets. Statues of the gods look down upon you, but many have shattered features or missing limbs. A few buildings and bridges have collapsed, in whole or in part, and most of the surviving buildings show some amount of scarring and damage.

Fallen is the worst district in a bad ward. A century ago, it was known as Godsgate, Sharn’s first temple district. But as the city grew, the primary temples relocated to the higher wards, and the most important relics were taken to Sovereign Towers. Some of the temples remained in service, but most were converted to serve as housing for workers in the Cogs. For hundreds of years the district slowly decayed. The final blow came on 9 Olarune 918 YK. The Glass Tower broke apart as it fell, and while most of the floating citadel landed in the Dagger River, some of its spires struck the district of Godsgate, shattering buildings and killing hundreds.

The city council had no intention of pouring gold into Lower Dura, and people of the district were left to repair the damage as best as they could. Many left, but some of the people were determined to remain in their ancestral homes or maintain their family businesses. Others couldn't afford to go anywhere else. The folk of Lower Dura also talk about that the spirits of the restless dead that haunt the worst ruins of the district, and the mysterious and apparently mad “ravers” who commune with them. Within a year, the district became known as Fallen, and ever since then the citizens of Sharn have shunned it.

The extent of the devastation varies considerably. In much of the district the original buildings remain largely intact; any gaps in walls and ceilings have been blocked off with boards or chunks of stone. A few businesses can still be found in these areas — taverns serving stew of questionable origin, crafters producing rough clothing and other necessities, merchants selling scavenged goods and materials. While the merchants of Fallen happily take any coins offered them, most are used to bartering with customers.

Where the spires of the falling Glass Tower crashed into the district, the buildings are shattered and broken, and segments of the Glass Tower jut from crushed temples and manors. The ravers inhabit these places, bloodthirsty feral folk who appeared after the disaster. Anyone who seeks the lost treasures of the Glass Tower must face the ravers—and perhaps the restless spirits of the dead. The city council also uses Fallen as a makeshift asylum, throwing the insane into the district, where they either join with the ravers or quickly die.

- **The Ravers**: They hide in the secret places, scavenging among the ruins where the Glass Tower and Fallen mingle in a jumble of glass and stone. Few ever see the ravers, but the evidence of their passing can be discerned amid the wreckage of old. Whether they were once citizens of the district or some strange breed released from the Depths by the shattering disaster, the ravers have been connected with the Day of Crystalfall and the troubled spirits said to haunt the mournful ruins. Most people never encounter the ravers, but those that do rarely survive to tell the tale.
- **Blackstone Church**: There are many shattered temples in Fallen, and the broken statues of the Sovereign Host look down upon the ruins. Only one temple still operates among the ruins — Blackstone Church, Sharn’s first temple to the Silver Flame. Once this church was tended by dozens of acolytes and filled with offerings and relics. Today, dust and shadows hold sway, and a single priest administers to the Flame. Faela (N female half-elf expert 3/adept 2), not part of the church hierarchy of Sharn, saw a need and took up residence in the abandoned church. The Silver Flame is dedicated to fighting the evil impulses of humanity as well as supernatural evil, and Faela does her best to counter the darkness she sees in Fallen. She provides nonmagical healing, acts as a mediator, and tries to defuse violent situations. While the people of Fallen don’t always listen to Faela, she is the only priest that has not abandoned them, and they generally look out for her. She devotes most of her time to the poorest and most wretched people of Fallen, trying to help these unfortunates rise up from squalor and make a better life. With her guidance, a number of the worst cases have even managed to leave Fallen and start a new life elsewhere in Sharn.

##### Gate of Gold (Tenement district)
> The great gate from which this district takes its name was stripped of its gilt plating many centuries ago. Old mansions and towers that once belonged to wealthy lords and merchants have been converted into tenement housing for the poor, and the inhabitants appear lean and hungry.

Once home to many of the founding families of Sharn, Gate of Gold is now little more than a slum. Small and wretched townhomes crowd the crime ridden, extremely dangerous district.

##### Malleon’s Gate (Goblinoid slum)
> Chaos and noise. This district is run-down and filthy. Smoke fills the air and rats scurry in the shadows. Goblins are everywhere, squabbling, haggling, and shouting at one another. A bugbear forces his way through the crowd, flinging goblins aside. A trio of hobgoblin warriors emerges from a tavern and the crowd instantly parts.

Sharn was built from the ruins of Shaarat, which was built atop old Duur’shaarat. All of these cities had one thing in common: Goblins. Malleon the Reaver enslaved the goblins of Duur’shaarat and forced them to build his city. King Galifar I offered the goblins freedom in exchange for their service as soldiers and laborers. For many of the goblins, there was little difference between life as a slave and life as a free laborer, but over the centuries some learned valuable trades and established their own businesses. While the goblins were officially citizens of Galifar, few humans enjoyed their company, and they found themselves congregating in Malleon’s Gate.

For centuries, goblins were the sole inhabitants of Malleon’s Gate. But with the rise of Darguun, all manner of goblinoids have emerged from the Seawall Mountains, and many have come to Sharn in search of opportunity. The relationship between the “city goblins” and these new immigrants is not entirely amicable; the Ghaal’dar bugbears and hobgoblins are used to dominating the goblins of Darguun, while the goblins of Sharn value their independence and rights as citizens. Daask and the recent immigrants from Droaam have brought new stability to the situation, as bugbear and goblin alike have to respect the power of a medusa or ogre mage. Nonetheless, Malleon’s Gate remains a very dangerous place. While most of the Sharn goblins happily do business with people of all races, anumber of goblin gangs, bugbear bullies, and unpleasant ogres enjoy taking out their frustrations on strangers.

The Sharn Watch stays out of Malleon’s Gate, but recently the medusa Gasslak (NE male medusa adept 1) has assumed the responsibility of maintaining order in the district. Gasslak only uses his power to deal with major disruptions; he doesn’t care if a few bugbears throw their weight around. But if adventurers start killing goblins by the score, Gasslak may take personal action or call on Daask to deal with the troublemakers. A few statues scattered around the streets give mute testimony to Gasslak’s power.

While many of the trades and services available in Malleon’s Gate are criminal in nature, the goblins also pursue a variety of crafts and professions. The district contains an old temple to the Sovereign Host, but the nine sovereigns are depicted as idealized goblinoids. Many of the Darguuls and Droaamites revere the Dark Six, and Gasslak has established a shrine to the Mockery in his abode.

- **Bloodstone Inn**: A Darguun mercenary troop known as the Ja’khor (a goblin word translating to “Blackbloods”) uses this inn as a base of operations.

##### Oldkeep (Apartment townhomes)
> Over the course of centuries, old fortresses and garrison halls have been converted into apartment buildings and shelters for the poor.

Once, Sharn’s City Watch operated out of a great set of towers and buildings known as the Keep, located in Lower Dura. When the City Watch spread out to Daggerwatch and the new garrisons springing up in other, higher-level districts, a number of land barons bought up the old property and converted it into housing. Now the place is called Oldkeep, in memory of its more glorious occupants. Most of the residents of Oldkeep work in Precarious, the Stores, or in Middle Dura. Many work for businesses with ties to the Boromars Clan.

Recently, bands of monsters with ties to Droaam have begun making surgical strikes in the district — thugs or burglars appear, hit a target with ties to the Boromars, and vanish into the Cogs. The Boromar Clan has hired Deneith mercenaries to patrol the district, but these guards can’t be everywhere at once. While they can handle a few gnolls or even an ogre, these mercenaries have a difficult time dealing with medusas or trolls.
All trades available in this district are illegal in nature. While most criminals do business in other districts, it may be possible to finda fence,a burglar, or a source for dreamlily or dragon’s blood in Oldkeep.

##### Precarious (Warehouse district)
> This district, dominated by massive warehouses that hold the cargo of the merchant ships that ply the Dagger River, consists of storage towers surrounded by tenements, flophouses, and an assortment of workhouses and businesses of questionable trade practices.

The skydocks of Precarious lean out into the air high above the Dagger River. Vast mystical cranes and magic lifts use levitation and the power of Syrania to haul loads of cargo and people to and from the waterfront districts of Cliffside. An army of laborers transports goods between the docks and the warehouses in the district — both the massive storage towers and the smaller warehouses. While sailors generally find entertainment in Cliffside, Precarious houses a variety of crafts and services. Mills and workhouses make immediate use of the raw materials brought up from the Dagger River, while a few dingy taverns, gambling dens, and dreamlily dealers provide the workers with a chance to leave their cares — and their silver — behind. A variety of criminal trades are practiced in Precarious; the Boromar Clan has a hand in many of the businesses in the area due to their considerable investments in smuggling and shipping.

Precarious plays an important part in the economy of Sharn, and as a result the City Watch maintains an active presence in the district. The Watch maintains a small garrison in the area to watch for smugglers — or at least to ensure that the proper bribes are paid. The Watch also protects the tariff office, the large customs agency on the skydocks that handles taxation of goods. The Watch protects trade: petty crimes are not their concern, and Precarious is definitely a dangerous place for average citizens and visitors. Tourists and important visitors arriving by ship generally hire a Deneith escort at Grayflood to ensure safe passage through Lower Dura to the higher levels of the city.

- **Dar San**: While there is little cultural contact between Riedra and Khorvaire, a considerable amount of trade flows across the Barren Sea. Most Riedrans distrust the people of Khorvaire, and over the years a number of Riedran merchants have purchased their own warehouses in Precarious, staffed with Riedran laborers and bookkeepers. Over the last century, a small Riedran community has taken root in Precarious; the inhabitants call in Dar San (“Far Port” in the Common tongue). Though they live in squalor, the Riedrans area proud people, and the lowliest laborer considers himself to be the equal of a duke of Khorvaire. Among themselves, the Riedrans observe a strict social hierarchy. When one of the Inspired comes to Dar San, he or she is treated like an emperor. While the Riedrans generally hold the people of Khorvaire in contempt, they have an irrational hatred of the kalashtar and Adarans. The neighborhood has established its own militia — though some might call it a street gang — and any kalashtar or Adaran who comes to the neighborhood gets just one chance to leave peacefully. Riedrans do not drink alcohol, nor do they use dreamlily or other narcotics; they view such behavior as an example of the corruption that grips Khorvaire. Dar San features a number of businesses catering to the Riedran community, including the two exotic trades listed in the district description. These include Kasharath, a restaurant serving Riedran cuisine; a grocery stocked with Riedran foods and goods; and a shrine to the Inspired. Prominent citizens include Lanharath (LN male human expert 4), who represents the merchant consortium that owns the warehouses; Hasalakesh (LN male human commoner 3), a tailor specializing in Riedran clothing; and Kantarashtai (LN female human expert 3), Dar San’s resident healer. Lanharath typically serves as the leader of the community, but the true power rests with the Inspired warrior Hamatash (LE male inspired rogue 3/soulknife 3). Hamatash maintains a low profile, but he is the disposable tool of the Dreaming Dark—if the Dark needs to take some action without revealing the existence of their sleeper agents, they use Hamatash and the Riedran militia.
- **House Kundarak**: House Kundarak owns five warehouses in Precarious. These warehouses are especially secure, combining alarm, seal of the magi, and glyph of warding with mundane and magic traps. These warehouses cost twice as much to use as their mundane counterparts, but merchants with a serious interest in security readily pay the price.

##### The Stores (Warehouse district)
> Wide storage towers dominate this district, surrounded by tenements and smaller warehouses. The streets are full of wagons and laborers hauling goods to and from the skydocks of Precarious.

The Stores district has much in common with Precarious. However, the Stores is not actually built on the cliff side, and the Watch focuses its attention and resources on Precarious. The result is that the Stores are slightly more dangerous than Precarious, and smugglers are more likely to hide their goods in these warehouses. The Boromar Clan has strong interests in this district, and thus a considerable halfling population can be found here.

#### Middle Dura
>Lower class ward split between commercial and residential districts; it is the border to the dangerous districts that lie below.

The stones in this old district have been worn smooth by the passage of time. There is a definite scent of danger in the air. The Sharn Watch patrols this ward, and these guards are always ready for trouble — though the crime lords often use bribes to ensure that the Watch is nowhere to be seen when certain activities take place. Nonetheless, Middle Dura is certainly safer than the ward that lies below. The Bazaar, the largest market in the city, can be found here, and the taverns and inns of Dura are a common destination for folk who don’t have many coins to rub together.

##### The Bazaar (Marketplace and shops)
> The crowd and noise of this district are overwhelming. In addition to the shops and stalls, the streets are full of people offering questionable goods and deals; it seems like everyone has something to sell. The Watch maintains a strong presence in the Bazaar, but they are more concerned with preventing riots than in stopping trade of illegal goods.

The Bazaar of Dura, the largest commercial district in Sharn, sprawls out across a dozen towers. The towers around the edges are devoted to shops and services. Almost anything can be found in this district, though the quality of any particular item or service cannot be guaranteed. At the center of the district, the open market from which the district takes its name presents a labyrinth of shops, tents, and makeshift stalls set up in the middle of the street. A marketplace permit costs only 3 cp, though many people try to avoid even this paltry sum. However, guards who catch such shirkers usually extort far larger sums in exchange for a pass.

Of the four markets of Sharn, the Bazaar has the highest concentration of criminal activity — illegal services and trades, as well as pickpockets, bullies, and con artists. These services are not as obvious as they are in Lower Dura or the Cogs, and quality and prices are not as good, but shopping here is generally safer than venturing to the lawless lower ward. The cost of illegal services should be increased by 25%. The Boromar Clan controls most of the illegal activities, but Daask has been pressing up from below, and those seeking services may be caught in the middle.

If an adventuring party displays obvious wealth — if they are spreading gold around, wearing glamerweave or impressive magic armor or clothes— they must deal with a constant stream of pleading beggars and con artists. Pickpockets pose a constant threat, and bullies try to lure shoppers into ambushes. When doing business in the Bazaar, it’s best to conceal your wealth.

The Bazaar is a good place to dispose of random acquisitions. Stolen goods aside (those requiring an actual fence), most items can be sold here for 45% of their actual value. The seller can make a DC 10 Charisma check; for every point of success, the sale price is increased by 1%. Almost any sort of mundane item can be found at the Bazaar, including alchemical goods. A merchant might even have a few magic items in stock, or at least items that he claims are magical. Any magic or masterwork items found in the Bazaar are certainly secondhand, and might have a dubious or intriguing history. The 25,000 gp limit applies to all transactions in the Bazaar.

- **Caerlyn’s Blade:** A troop of Valenar mercenaries that calls itself Caerlyn’s Blades uses the Bazaar as a base of operations.
- **The Shrine of the Keeper**: While the Keeper is associated with death, he is first and foremost the god of greed — the hunger to possess all things, from gold to souls. Gellis Candar (NE male dwarf expert 3/adept 3) runs a large pawnshop in the Bazaar, and he maintains a shrine to the Keeper in a hidden back chamber. A few of the other merchants know of the shrine and attend Candar’s services, believing that the Keeper can help them fulfill their greedy desires.
- **Vundry**: Vundry (NE female gnome expert 6) runs a shop in the Bazaar of Dura. On the surface, appears to be a pawnshop and curio store. Behind this facade, Vundry is one of the most reliable and well-connected fences in Sharn. When dealing with a friend, Vundry can turn up almost any item within a week (within her 25,000 gp limit). Normally, Vundry buys any legal item for 45% of its value, up to a limit of 10,000 gp. Her shop is full of odds and ends of all sorts—pottery shards from Xen’drik, a masterwork broadsword, a Riedran spice rack. For her friends, Vundry raises her limit to 30,000 gp and pays 55% of the value of items that she buys. Vundry also fences illegal goods, charging 20% of the value of the item. She usually drops this fee by 1% every subsequent time she does business with the same character, to a minimum of 10%. It can be expensive establishing credentials with Vundry, but over time it is worth the expense.

##### Broken Arch (Average residential)
> Rows of stone houses circle the central towers of this district. The stone is worn and cracks are beginning to show. The streets are surprisingly quiet and empty. The people view strangers with suspicion and fear, and hurry toward their destinations.

Early in the history of Sharn, Barchan’s Arch was one of the finest residential districts in the city. Barchan ir’Tyran, a powerful nobleman, along with Hestian ir’Tain, helped shape the City of Towers. Then, during the reign of King Galifar the Dark, the ir’Tyran family attempted to seize the throne of the kingdom. Those ir’Tyrans who survived were stripped of their noble rank and banished from Galifar. Since then, Barchan’s Arch has been shunned by the powerful families of Sharn, and it has fallen into disrepair; two hundred years ago, people began calling it “Broken Arch,” and the name stuck.

Today, Broken Arch lies under the shadow of the treason of the past. While it has a few manor houses, these belong to the lesser families of Sharn or merchants trying to climb the social ladder. The district rarely receives aid from the city council, and the Watch patrols are lighter than in the other districts of the ward. As a result, criminals from Lower Dura often frequent the alleys of Broken Arch and prey on the honest citizens. Daask bullies have become an especially common threat over the past three years.

##### Hareth’s Folly (Tavern district)
> The buildings of this district are a bizarre mishmash of architectural styles and materials. Narrow spires stand across from squat brick keeps and densewood halls. In addition to the bridges connecting the great towers of the district, a maze of suspended rope, wood, and stone roads connect the upper levels within the towers, creating the impression of a mad spider web. Music and song can be heard echoing from various towers, and people laugh and run through the streets.

Today, common opinion believes that the architect Hareth ir’Talan was mad. He should never have been allowed to work on a project as important as the construction of a Sharn district, but gold and family connections gave him his chance. The result was the district now known as Hareth’s Folly. At first, Hareth sought to include buildings in the styles of all the contemporary cultures of the kingdom, so that visitors from all parts of Galifar would feel at home. As construction continued, he began to add new designs, based on his visions of the architecture of Syrania, Thelanis, and the other divine realms.

As a result, all manner of different buildings can be found in Hareth’s Folly, including some of the strangest structures in Khorvaire. While most believe that Hareth was mad, a minority feel that he was driven by divine inspiration.

Hareth’s Folly focuses on entertainment. Inexpensive inns, pubs, restaurants, and taverns fill the district. While there is less criminal activity here than in Callestan or the Bazaar, a great deal of gambling occurs in the back rooms of Hareth’s Folly. In particular, the district serves as a center for aerial sports, including windchasing and skyblade matches. Hareth’s Folly is not represented in the Race of Eight Winds; instead, it provides a neutral position from which the race begins and ends.

- **The Hollow Tower**: Hareth ir’Talan constructed Sharn’s first aerial arena, and over the centuries this odd structure has brought a great deal of silver into the district. While most windchases occur outside the towers, skyblade matches and many other aerial sports are played in an enclosed space. The Hollow Tower provides that space — multiple levels of one of the great towers converted into an enormous domed arena, lined with everbright lanterns to provide illumination at all hours. Today, many of the more prestigious events take place at Cornerstone in Middle Tavick’s Landing, but the Hollow Tower still does a brisk business, and many of the other districts use the tower as a training ground.
- **The King of Fire**: The most common deck of playing cards used in Khorvaire has four suits, each tied to one of the four elements. The largest tavern in Hareth’s Folly uses the King of Fire as its trade sign. The tavern, a strange structure supposedly inspired by Hareth’s visions of Fernia, consists of black stone and brass, and continual flame spells have been placed on fixtures throughout the building — including tables and chairs. Half a dozen card games constantly play out in the back rooms of the King, and the place does a brisk business in gambling on races and skyblade matches. Lat Horasca (N male halfling expert 5), a former Glidewing jockey, owns the tavern, which he won in a dramatic hand of cards. Lat is a gambler, not an innkeeper, but he has married into House Ghallanda and his wife Kela (N female halfling commoner 4) manages the day-to-day affairs of the business. Things can get rowdy during the Race of Eight Winds, but Lat has wisely invested in an excellent bouncer, an ogre named Korrla (N female ogre fighter 3). When she’s not working, Korrla often fights at the Burning Ring in Lower Menthis.

##### Rattlestone (Apartment townhomes)
> The housing towers in this district are packed with people. The district shows its age. Cobblestones are cracked or missing, and the worn stone walls have been marred by time and vandalism. However, the people seem cheerful enough despite the squalid conditions.

The inhabitants of Rattlestone are poor, but most have jobs of one sort or another in the Bazaar. Many of the Watch patrols that protect this district are made up of native Rattlestoners. In comparison to most members of the Dura Watch, the Rattlestone guards are more likely to risk life and limb to protect the people of the district. But this doesn’t apply to strangers, outsiders, or adventurers, and members of the Watch may actually help the local pickpockets and charlatans carry out their scams.

##### Stormhold (Average residential)
> The houses of this district are extremely solid, and almost seem more like miniature fortresses rather than residences. The people tend to be serious and suspicious. Children are kept off the streets, and strangers are watched closely.

Clifftop solicitors, overseers from the workhouses in Redstone and the Bazaar, and other successful crafters and merchants have made their homes in Stormhold. A number of manors built by the aristocratic founding families of Sharn in the first days of the city can be found in this district, but most of the powerful families have moved on to Central Plateau or Skyway in recent centuries. A handful of the Sixty great families still live in this district, however. The townhouses of Stormhold are generally cramped and uncomfortable, but the walls are thick and the doors stout. Stormholders take security extremely seriously, and the powerful families hire Deneith mercenaries to supplement the Watch patrols.

##### Tumbledown (Tenement district)
> The walls of Tumbledown are honeycombed with tiny chambers, and massive tenements occupy the center of the towers. Large or small, these townhouses are in terrible condition; walls are chipped and cracked, and mold and mildew covers everything. The people crammed into Tumbledown are poor and miserable.

Tumbledown is a wretched residential district, home to the poorest inhabitants of Middle Dura. While it has little to offer, it is at least occasionally patrolled by the Sharn Watch, which provides the inhabitants with a limited sense of security. Daask has recently established a dreamlily den in one of the tenements of Tumbledown, run by a gnoll named Caasht (NE male gnoll rogue 3). A small band of gnolls provides security for the den. This is a direct challenge to the Boromar Clan’s control of dreamlily distribution, but so far the Boromars have not struck back.

##### Underlook (Inn district)
> The Underlook district has seen better days. Dingy inns and restaurants line the streets, but many old businesses have closed and been transformed into wretched tenements. Nonetheless, cheap lodging is plentiful and travelers from across Khorvaire walk the streets.

Before Menthis Plateau, Underlook was the center for Sharn’s nightlife. The district was filled with fine restaurants, inns, and other forms of entertainment. But over the centuries the finest establishments have moved to other towers, leaving Underlook to decay in the shadows. Honest sailors and merchants who arrive at Cliffside often choose to stay in Underlook instead of risking life and limb in the Lower Wards.
In addition to the inns and taverns of Underlook, there are a wide number of businesses that are, while not illegal, often held in low regard. In particular, Underlook is an excellent place to hire inquisitives. While the heirs of Tharashk are generally considered to be the best inquisitives in Khorvaire, there are a number of capable non-house operatives in the district who can do the job if the price is right.

- **Ghallanda Hall**: While many of the finest inns have left Underlook, one exceptional establishment remains. Ghallanda Hall was the first outpost House Ghallanda established in Sharn, and while it is not as fancy as the enclave in Dragon Towers, it still makes for an imposing place. The hall is divided into three sections, each catering to customers with different financial means — effectively, an upscale, average, and poor lodging combined into one. Some rooms have been specially prepared for members of different races, so halflings and gnomes can feel at home in a smaller environment. While each section of the inn has its own common room, there is also a grand hall open to all that features a tavern and a stage. Acts change on a nightly basis, and Ghallanda Hall generally has the best entertainment in Middle Dura. Ghallanda Hall is one of the few locations where the house hosts its heroes’ feasts. A private dining room in the upscale quarter of the hall is reserved for this function, and the clients receive exceptional treatment and entertainment to accompany the enchanted meal. The current Lord of Ghallanda Hall, Keslo d’Ghallanda (N male halfling expert 7/ dragonmark heir 2), bears the Mark of Hospitality (purify food and drink). Keslo is a man of many talents, a diplomat, a poet, and a master chef. Eight elite Ghallanda guards (2nd-level halfling barbarians) provide security, and two clawfoot dinosaurs can be brought into play during serious altercations.
- **Information Acquisition**: When people think of inquisitives, House Tharashk usually springs to mind. Kalaash’arrna (NE male half-ore rogue 4/master inquisitive 3), a cunning man with the Mark of Finding (locate object, locate creature), runs Information Acquisition (Lhash’ta’raak in the orcish tongue) for the house. As the name implies, InAc specializes in information gathering — shadowing people, digging up dirt, and similar, often unsavory tasks. Kalaash’arrna never betrays his clients; however, he is completely ruthless when it comes to fulfilling his contracts. Kalaash comes from one of the poorer families of the house. The success of InAc directly reflects on his family, and he is determined to prove his value to the house. While Kalaash serves as the primary inquisitive at InAc, he employs four lesser inquisitives, all unmarked members of House Tharashk (both humans and half-orcs). These include two 2nd-level rogues and two 3rd-level experts.

#### Upper Dura
>Crowded and bustling. This is not a wealthy ward, but the people are surviving, and some are clearly doing quite well for themselves. While there are a few upscale businesses, the merchants are clearly used to dealing with adventurers and others of questionable character.

Physically and economically, Upper Dura has little in common with the slums and tenements that lie below it. The upper towers were erected over the past few centuries, and the stonework reflects the prosperity of Breland and the city. If the ward is not as fancy or prestigious as Central Plateau or Northedge, at least the streets are clean and in good repair. However, while many of the people of Upper Dura are successful merchants or crafters, there is a seedy edge to the ward. Beggars can be found throughout the ward, flaunting their afflictions and misfortunes in hopes of earning pity and coppers. Dreamlily dens and other forms of high-class crime can be found in the shadows. The people are comfortable with strangers and others of questionable character — so adventurers are made welcome.

##### Clifftop (Adventurer’s quarter)
> The towers of this district are drab gray granite, but the crowds that fill the streets are quite colorful. People of all races and cultures can be seen. An Aundairian wizard compares notes with a kalashtar monk in the shade of a tavern, while across the street a Lhazaar privateer and a Valenar elf compare blades. Clifftop is a fairly dingy district — but it attracts an interesting crowd.

This district attracts those willing to devote sword, spells, or skills to risky but profitable endeavors. Anyone looking for a discreet bodyguard, a mercenary soldier, or a guide to the wilds of Xen drik can find what they need in Clifftop. Adventurers looking for a patron may find one here.
Clifftop is a curious blend of wealth and poverty. Most of the businesses in the district are serviceable, but not exceptional, providing for the needs of the adventurer who rarely has more than a few pieces of gold in his purse. It also provides services for the lucky explorer or privateer who has returned home with gold to spare, with commercial spellcasters, shops selling used wands and old mageworked weapons, and other exotic goods readily available. While similar in many ways to the Deathsgate district, Clifftop has a better and generally well-deserved reputation.

The district provides a number of services adventurers may find useful. A wide variety of hirelings can be found here, and all of them are used to putting up with the odd demands of adventurers. Likewise, as adventurers have a way of getting into trouble with the law, there are a considerable number of barristers and advocates in the district. The pawnshops of Clifftop offer 45% of value for almost any sorts of goods, except those that are obviously stolen; fences that deal in stolen goods must be found in the lower levels of Dura.

- **The Augury**: This shop, located in the section of Clifftop known as the mystic market, features a circle of magewrights who possess the ability to cast divinatory spells, including augury, clairaudience/clairvoyance, detect magic, detect scrying, divination, identify, locate creature, locate object, and scrying. The master magewright of The Augury is a 334-year-old elf named Kestia (N female elf magewright 18). A child of House Phiarlan, Kestia was expelled from the house after she developed an aberrant dragonmark. However, her mystical powers exceed even the wizards of the Esoteric Order of Aureon. She can contact other plane and imbue with spell ability, allowing her to sell the power to cast a particular spell (albeit once). Her other talents include permanency, sending, and false vision; she occasionally sells permanent alarms, and she herself has permanent arcane sight and tongues. As it sells sending, locate, and alarm spells, The Augury cuts into the profits of a number of the dragonmarked houses, notably Tharashk, Sivis, and Kundarak. Some believe that Kestia uses blackmail to protect herself from the retribution of the houses, while others say that she appeases the houses with a share of her profits. She has refused to join the Esoteric Order of Aureon or the Guild of Starlight and Shadows, preferring to remain independent.
- **Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild**: This district has long served as a crossroads for adventurers and soldiers of fortune. One hundred and fifty years ago, a dwarf named Shekkal Korranor established a guild for explorers and wanderers — a place where those with adventurous spirits could find good company and support. Shekkal died in the Last War, but the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild remains. Members tend to be 2nd- to 5th-level characters with good alignments, most of whom have spent some time in Xen‘drik. There is a strong rivalry between the members of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild and Deathsgate Explorer’s Club, and characters that join Clifftop may have to deal with Deathsgate hooligans — either in Sharn or while adventuring in the wilds.
- **The Dragon’s Hoard**: The Dragon’s Hoard sells a wide assortment of wondrous items. Members of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild receive a 5% discount off the normal market price for items purchased here.
- **The Drunken Dragon**: A bizarre assortment of odds and ends cover the walls of the Drunken Dragon tavern, including the trophies of a hundred expeditions to Xen’drik, the Demon Wastes, and other strange lands. Among the oldest pubs in Upper Dura, the Drunken Dragon is a long-time favorite of explorers, adventurers, and privateers. Slow service and poor food aside, the Drunken Dragon has one of the widest selections of exotic alcoholic beverages in Sharn. From Mror ale and Lhazaar mead to the orcish hrak of the Shadow Marches and fermented honey-milk brewed by the shifters of the Eldeen Reaches, if it’s strong and strange it can be found at the Drunken Dragon. The Dragon has become one of the main places to hire adventurers; if a party has no specific agenda and simply hopes to find work, it could do worse than to have a few drinks at the Drunken Dragon. The Dragon is a tavern as opposed to an inn, but it does have two private rooms that parties can use when discussing secret business or important deals. The Drunken Dragon is owned by Hascal d’Ghallanda (NG male halfling rogue 3/expert 6), a cheerful middle-aged halfling. Hascal began his life as an explorer, but gave up the trade after losing his lower left leg and his right eye in a particularly disastrous trip to Xen’drik, and returned to pick up the family business. He has an assortment of beautifully carved artificial limbs and colorful eye patches that correspond to his flamboyant outfits. Hascal is an extremely knowledgeable and talented fellow who, given an opportunity, can spend hours talking about his adventures. Hascal possesses the Mark of Hospitality and has the power to cast *refuge*; while he generally saves this for personal protection, for enough gold he could be convinced to cast it on behalf of a group of favored customers. Though he no longer actively adventures, Hascal remains a member of the Clifftop Adventurers’ Guild.
- **The Esoteric Order of Aureon**: The larger of Sharn’s wizard circles, the Esoteric Order of Aureon  has its headquarters in Clifftop. The Order’s tower is built of white marble, and: glamers have been woven into the stone that cause the tower to shimmer and glow so that it seems as if it has been crafted of solid light. Not all members of the Order sell their services, but if a party seeks an arcane spellcaster in Clifftop, this is the place to visit. Generally, spells of up to 3rd level can be obtained at standard prices, and 4th-level spells may be available. However, the wizards of the Order may not have the spell a party seeks prepared; in such cases, a client must wait 24 hours to complete their purchase.
- **House Sivis**: In addition to the local message station, House Sivis maintains an enclave in Clifftop devoted to the Speaker’s Guild. This enclave specializes in two things: the translation of texts and other materials recovered from Xen’drik, and legal services for adventurers in trouble. Josilian Kan d’Tarlian (N male gnome bard 3/expert 3) works out of this office, and is widely considered to be one of the best barristers in Sharn — though at a base price of 25 gp/day (and possibly more, depending on the nature of the case), he is certainly one of the most expensive.
- **House Tharashk**: The House of Finding has a great interest in Xen’drik and the mineral wealth that can be found there, as well as an interest in the other dark lands of Eberron — Q barra, the Demon Wastes, Khyber, and the Mournland. The Tharashk enclave in Clifftop is primarily concerned with exploration and prospecting. The house sells the services of guides, and many of its members have firsthand experience in Xen’drik and Khyber. In addition to the powers of their dragonmarks, these guides can provide invaluable information about the threats lurking in these regions. When the house plans expeditions to Xen’drik, these are usually arranged at the Clifftop enclave. Due to the rivalry with Tharashk and Deneith, the house often recruits adventurers to protect an expedition instead of hiring Deneith mercenaries.
- **Kavv’s**: This little restaurant is one of the wellkept secrets of Sharn. The Kavv family emigrated from the city of Stormreach in Xen’drik, and the food is an intriguing blend of Khorvairian styles, using Xen’drik spices and vegetables most people have never encountered. Kavvy’s is a small, intimate establishment, and despite the extremely high quality of the food, a typical meal averages 30 cp. Sazaand Taji Kavv (NG male and female humans, both commoner 4) still have many friends and relatives in Stormreach, and if the party befriends the Kavvs these contacts could prove to be useful during trips to Xen’drik.
- **Kurala’s House of Healing**: Explorers tend to need healing more than merchants and crafters, and Kurala d’Jorasco (NG female halfling adept 9) does a brisk business in Clifftop. In addition to possessing the Mark of Healing (lesser restoration), she is an adept of Boldrei and can perform magical healing for her clients, including remove curse and remove disease. While she runs her own business, Kurala is a respected member of House Jorasco and is often called in to help the healers in Dragon Towers. Kurala’s House includes three lesser healers—two 3rd-level adepts and a 4th-level expert with the Mark of Healing (cure light wounds) — and Kurala’s husband Janasar (N male halfling expert 4), who specializes in the care and treatment of animals.
- **The Mystic Market**: The white tower of the Esoteric Order of Aureon is surrounded by a host of lesser magic businesses. Most true wizards work with the Esoteric Order or the Guild of Starlight and Shadow, and the Mystic Market consists mainly of magewrights and adepts. Businesses in the market include: The Mithral Blade, a smithy that produces steel and mithral weapons and armor with up to a +2 enhancement bonus; Wise Wood, a shop that buys and sells wands and staves; The Moonlit Loom, which sells magic clothing; The Dragon’s Hoard, which sells a wide assortment of minor wondrous items and does a brisk business in feather fall talismans; and two different potion merchants, Boldrei’s Tears and Good Spirits. These shops all operate within the 40,000 gp limit of the ward, though the Dragon’s Hoard has a 20,000 gp limit on its goods.

##### Daggerwatch (Garrison)
> This may be the cleanest and quietest district in Dura. The walls of the towers are heavily reinforced, as if to withstand siege weaponry. The streets are filled with guards of the Watch, both patrols and off-duty guards; it looks like a bad place to start a fight.

Dura is easily the most dangerous quarter of the city, and during the Last War riots and other forms of unrest were a constant concern. Plus, the Race of the Eight Winds usually results in various forms of crime and vandalism. As a result, Daggerwatch has the largest concentration of the City Watch in Sharn. Many low-ranking city officials, including judges and tax collectors, make their homes in Daggerwatch and rely on the presence of the Watch to protect them from vengeful citizens.

- **Daggerwatch Garrison**: The eponymous garrison in the district is the home to over 600 members of the Sharn Watch. In addition to the regular officers of the Watch, Daggerwatch Garrison houses the Goldwings and includes facilities for maintaining the unit’s 25 hippogriffs.
- **The Gold & White**: This large tavern is usually filled with off-duty guards of the Watch and royal soldiers. Anyone wearing the insignia of a non-Brelish military unit, or who can be identified as having served with another nation during the Last War, receives an Unfriendly attitude by the patrons of The Gold & White. Conversely, any character who served Breland during the war gets a Friendly attitude.
- **Talain Garrison**: This fortress houses both the Sharn Watch and the elite Redcloak Battalion. While slightly smaller than the Daggerwatch Garrison, it is far more heavily fortified and could withstand an extended siege.

##### Highhold (Dwarf neighborhood)
> The architecture is sturdy, functional stone, though the scale is slightly too small for most humans. While there is luxury to be found here, the citizens of Holdfast put work before play.

When House Kundarak first established itself in Sharn, the dwarf immigrants who came with the house sought to make their mark on the city. While dwarf engineers had played a significant role in the construction of Sharn, the city was designed for humans. Holdfast is the first district to be built by dwarves for dwarves, and their touch is evident throughout the district. While the dwarves appreciate luxury and comfort, they are also concerned with defense and durability, and the buildings of Holdfast are among of the strongest and most defensible in the city.
Dwarves make up the majority of the population in Holdfast — both recent immigrants from the Mror Holds and those whose families have lived in Sharn for generations. The inns and taverns serve strong Mror ale and stonebreaker mead, and most of the buildings and furnishings are built to dwarven proportions. Beyond the dwarves, there are a considerable number of gnomes in the district, reflecting the strong economic ties between House Sivis and House Kundarak.

Businesses in Holdfast include a branch of the Kundarak Bank and a Sivis message station. There are also restaurants serving Mror food (an acquired taste for most humans) and a variety of other crafters, including master masons, architects, and armorers. Many of the inhabitants work for one of the branches of the Kundarak Bank, while others work in the Cog foundries but have positions allowing them to afford to live above the surface.

- **Clebdecher’s Loom**: While most people think of dwarves as grim and stoic individuals, the merchant princes of the Mror Holds take great pride in their appearance and clothing. Run by Hellien Clamas Clebdecher (LN female gnome commoner 6/magewright 2), Clebdecher’s Loom specializes in fine clothing in Mrorian and Zil styles. Clebdecher is one of the finest workers of glamerweave in the city, and many human lords and ladies come to Holdfast to avail themselves of her talents. As a result, there is usually a considerable wait for Hellian’s services; anyone preparing for an important event needs to plan ahead to purchase a Clebdecher gown or suit.
- **Moraggan’s**: The Mror spirits served at Moraggan’s might be the strongest drink in Sharn. However, Moraggan’s is a far cry from the rough and tumble saloon one might expect from a place with such a reputation. This posh, luxurious establishment has considerable security and a number of private, soundproofed rooms. Moraggan’s caters to Kundarak agents and other Mror merchants — traders and crafters who believe that strong drink and business negotiation go hand in hand.

##### Highwater (Average residential)
> Quiet streets wind around townhouse towers in a relatively safe environment.

Highwater is the finest residential district in Dura, thought the accommodations are considerably smaller and plainer than those of Middle Northedge, let alone any of the other upper wards. But the prices are reasonable, the stonework is solid, the views are exceptional, and the streets are fairly safe — for Dura.

- **Pegasus Spire**: While House Vadalis conducts most of its business in Dragon Towers, the head of the household has always resided in the Pegasus Spire in Highwater. The Sharn Vadalis have always enjoyed participating in the Race of Eight Winds and the Highwater Wind Guard has always included members of the family. In addition to serving as the manor for the Vadalis family, Pegasus Spire provides the stable and training facilities for the pegasi used in the race.

##### Hope’s Peak (Temple district)
> Many of the towers in this district are built from blocks of white stone flecked with spots of gold, and when the sunlight falls on Hope’s Peak it seems to glow and burn.

Hope’s Peak is the most recent temple district constructed in Sharn, and many of the shrines were relocated from the lower levels of Dura. The most important building is the Citadel of the Sun, but the main temples of the Sovereign Host and the Silver Flame draw worshippers from the depths of Dura. While most of the priests of the region are devout enough, this is Dura, and pragmatism abounds. If a party of adventurers knows who to talk to and how to approach them, divine miracles can be bought outright. With luck and hard work, divine spellcasting services of up to 4th level can be purchased.

- **The Citadel of the Sun**: The tallest tower in Hope’s Peak is the Citadel of the Sun, a temple dedicated to Dol Arrah, the Sovereign lady of Sun and Sword. The stone of the tower has been enchanted to shine like gold, but it is still stone — something that has proven to be a grave disappointment to many a beggar who has sought to scrape a shaving from the wall. Aerela Tal (LG female half-elf adept 12), a devoted priest who served with distinction in the war before retiring, maintains the temple. Aerela does not sell divine spells, but she may provide assistance in exchange for services; she is distressed by the darkness in Sharn, and would like to see light shed on the shadows of the city. This large and beautiful temple's tower rises far above the other districts of Upper Dura. At the top lies a garden, where three golden griffons — half-celestial creatures (7, 8, and 9 HD respectively) said to have been touched by the lady of the sun — reside. The griffons rarely stray from the tower, but an oracle has said that they will rise and fight at the time of Sharn’s greatest peril. Killing one of these creatures would be a heinous crime that would outrage the devotees of the goddess.
- **Olladra’s Arms**: This restaurant, one of the brightest spots in Dura, is considered to be one of the finest restaurants in the city. In addition to a few private rooms, it features a vast central hall suitable for enormous parties or feasts. The menu consists of traditional Brelish cuisine, but choices are limited. The master chef, Halean Doss (N male human commoner 9), chooses a single menu each night. However, quantities are generous and the quality of the food is outstanding.

##### Overlook (Apartment townhomes)
> The spires of over a dozen identical towers rise to the sky. While the towers are drab gray granite, bits of color are scattered about— an occasional window of stained glass, a small hanging garden, a tapestry of Riedran design.

Built with the fortune of the ir’Tain family, Overlook is one of the largest residential districts in Sharn. The remarkably bland stonework creates a vast, gray vista that can be disconcerting. The ir’Tains were interested in getting the most for their gold, however, and aesthetics were not a concern. While the townhouse apartments in Overlook are not as pleasant as those in Lower Northedge, they are inexpensive and far safer than the wards that lie below. Plus, the area offers breathtaking views of the Dagger River and the surrounding countryside.

Over the centuries, Overlook has developed a significant Adaran and kalashtar community, and the district draws most of the kalashtar who come to Sharn. A variety of businesses catering to the Adarans hide in the depths of Overlook: a crystal worker, a school of meditation and martial arts, a tailor specializing in Adaran fashions, and a few restaurants serving Adaran cuisine. Few people outside the community know about these places.

There are no inns in Overlook, but the Adarans take care of their own. Kalashtar or Adarans who come to Overlook can usually find shelter with one of the local families, although they are expected to behave graciously and in some way to repay the generosity of the host; however, the Adarans value news or wisdom as much as gold. While the Adarans add exotic color to Overlook, they only account for a third of the population of the district. Most of the other inhabitants are humans, halflings, and dwarves who work in Upper or Middle Dura.

- **The Gathering Light**: The Adarans and kalashtar are concentrated on the northern edge of Overlook. Adaran citizens have pooled their resources to rent a large hall, the Gathering Light, that serves as an anchor for the community. During the day, the hall functions as a school, where people come to study kalashtar martial arts and meditation techniques. In the evenings, the people gather to celebrate their heritage. Activities at the gatherings vary considerably. Some nights song, dance, or other forms of art play a dominate role, while other nights involve serious discussions of philosophy, metaphysics, or current events. Selkatari (LN female kalashtar monk 7) oversees martial training and monastic discipline at the Gathering Light, while Hanamelk (LG male kalashtar) serves as the resident scholar and sage. These two also work together to protect the community from crime and violence, using diplomacy when possible and force when reason fails.
- **Hilatashka**: Hidden away in the shadows of one of the gray towers, the Hilatashka restaurant serves Adaran cuisine. Meals are reasonably priced, around 6 cp per person, but the quality is exceptional. Providing vegetarian fare that mostly consists of cold dishes and soups prepared with a range of subtle spices. Kalashtar have an exceptionally well-developed sense of taste, and it can take some time for members of other races to learn to appreciate the delicate blends of spices and herbs used in Adaran meals.
- **The Shrine of il-Yannah**: The kalashtar-constructed shrine of il-Yannah, the Path of Light, occupies a small parapet at the top of a tall tower. From the breathtaking views to the Sarlonan incense that scents the air, the shrine radiates a calm, otherworldly peace. Tapestries with intricate, labyrinthine patterns cover the walls and floor, adding to the exotic nature of the place. The enlightened Havakhad (LG male kalashtar), a powerful psion whose frail body is beginning to fail, tends the shrine and rarely wanders far from this location. Havakhad gladly offers advice and spiritual guidance to any follower of the Light who comes to meditate at the shrine, and he sometimes uses precognition on behalf of those he considers to be champions.

##### Redstone (Shops)
> Handsome towers of red marble and granite packed with various shops and crafters offer a seemingly endless array of goods. The brick hanging streets are filled with milling customers and the occasional unfortunate begging for copper and silver.

One of the newer districts, Redstone is less than two hundred years old and many of the respectable crafters from the Bazaar of Middle Dura have moved here in recent years. The architects sought to overcome the negative perceptions of Dura, and the stonework is beautiful. Much of it was crafted using red marble from Rose Quarry, once a thriving Cyran supplier which now lies in ruins in Darguun. The rest of the towers consist of red granite and brick. With a host of subtle variations in shade, the towers present a striking sight, especially in the light of the setting sun.

Redstone has grown into one of the largest centers for commerce in the city, nearly twice the size of Granite Halls. Almost any sort of honest trade can be found in Redstone, from bakers to wigmakers. There are two banks in Redstone, including a Kundarak enclave and the smaller Lorrean Bank, a family business belonging to one of the sixty great families of Sharn. The district also contains workhouses that draw on the population of Overlook, including a glassworks and a textile factory.

### References

* Sharn: City of Towers
* https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Sharn
