 #location #district [[Sharn]]

Northedge, one of the quietest regions within Sharn, is a residential quarter. Most of its inhabitants are crafters and commoners, people who make an honest living within the great city. As a result, it is an uncommon destination for adventurers. However, a variety of tradesfolk and artisans work out of their Northedge homes, and it is possible that a party will be recommended to one of the Northedge specialists.

In addition, if an adventurer wants to take up residence within Sharn, the prices in Northedge are quite reasonable. Finally, while Northedge is known as a peaceful region, this calm facade can make an excellent cover for sinister activities. In other words, Northedge makes a perfect hiding place for a master villain, a nefarious cult, or a cunning spy.

### Characters

* **Flamebearer Mazin Tana** (LG male human cleric) maintains the temple of the Silver Flame known as Coldflame Keep.
* **Dantian d’Lyrandar** (NN male half-elf). Trade Minister for House Lyrandar who lives in Oak Towers.

### Locations (Districts)

#### Lower Northedge
>A quiet residential area containing a few workhouses.

Lower Northedge is home to the hardworking laborers of Sharn — generally decent folk who believe in an honest day’s work and can afford to stay out of Lower Dura. The people of Lower Northedge don’t look for trouble, and they don’t like it coming to their towers. The ward is relatively simple in structure and design, but it has been kept in good condition over the centuries and is a pleasant enough place to live. While it is largely residential, it includes a number of small workhouses and simple schools, along with North Market.

##### North Market (Marketplace)
> North Market is one of the oldest business districts in Sharn. The cobblestone streets have been repaved time and again, and the walls of the towers are worn smooth with age. People always fill the streets, but there is less noise and bustle than one might expect from such a crowd; the locals are surprisingly patient and polite.

The open market of this district is one of the oldest in Sharn. In addition to local residents, crafters from the regions around Sharn come to sell their wares at the open market, and Far and Sar are excellent times to purchase textiles and other crafted goods. A marketplace permit costs 3 sp. Most of the businesses and merchants in the district follow solid, simple trades: blacksmiths, brewers, carpenters, and tailors who produce sturdy clothes for the lower classes. However, Lower Northedge is home to a significant portion of Sharn’s shifter population, and there are a few exotic trades and restaurants catering to the shifting folk, including an apothecary who specializes in the proper care of fangs and claws.
In addition to the private businesses, there area number of workhouses in North Market, primarily textile factories. The district also contains a small temple to the Sovereign Host, which primarily honors Kol Korran and Onatar.

- **The Shrine of Fathen the Martyr**: In the early days of Sharn, Lower Northedge contained a strong network of wererats. When the Silver Flame sought to exterminate the lycanthropes, the cleric Fathen was instrumental in identifying the two-legged vermin infesting the city. In the final days of the crusade, Fathen uncovered a nest of wererats in North Market. Fathen was torn apart in the street, but somehow he granted the common citizens the power to bypass the lycanthropes’ resistance to injury and a mob of commoners defeated the creatures. The Church of the Silver Flame raised a shrine on the site of Fathen’s death, and to this day pilgrims come from across Khorvaire to pray at the martyr’s shrine. The shifters of Sharn are still bitter about the crusade, and there is often tension between shifters and followers of the Flame, especially on the day of Fathen’s Fall. Kaira Faine (LG female half-elf cleric 5) maintains the shrine, as this former member of the church templars has grown too old to fight on the front lines. A follower of the Silver Flame who visits the shrine can ask Kaira to bless one weapon, or 20 bolts, arrows, or bullets. The priest asks for a donation commensurate with the pilgrim’s wealth, though paladins of the Flame are never required to pay the tithe. The blessed weapon gains the properties of alchemical silver for purposes of bypassing damage reduction. This effect lasts for 24 hours, anda particular individual can only receive the blessing once every week.
- **The Bear’s Rest**: An enormous shifter woman named Leara (N female shifter commoner 3) owns the Bear’s Rest inn. The inn is of average quality and price, but Leara gives a 20% discount to shifters. The inn has a remarkable collection of bearskins, including blankets, carpets, and wall hangings.
- **The Horse & Hearth**: Travelers looking for food, drink, and shelter can find it all at the Horse & Hearth, a large inn and tavern maintained by House Ghallanda. The food and lodging are both of average quality, but extremely reliable. While it doesn’t have the colorful atmosphere of the local shifter establishments, the Horse & Hearth has the reputation of House Ghallanda behind it, and provides all the standard services the house is known for. Gaidan d’Ghallanda (NG male halfling commoner 9) operates the inn. Gaidan possesses the Mark of Hospitality (purify food and drink, Leomund’s secure shelter), and two of his daughters have the Least Mark (prestidigitation and purify food and drink).
- **The Rat’s Nest**: This tavern caters primarily to the shifters of Lower Northedge, and serves food and drink in the style of the Eldeen Reaches. The customers of the Rat’s Nest are more inclined to gossip than to violence; the shifters of Northedge are as industrious and honest as any other citizen of the ward. However, the presence of Fathen’s Shrine hangs over the tavern like a shadow, and the regulars have an unfriendly attitude toward any follower of the Silver Flame. 

##### Stoneyard (Apartment townhomes)
> Balcony orchards line the exterior towers of this quiet residential district, and small parks are scattered throughout the district. A large number of shifters inhabit the area, and shifter children scamper through the trees with great enthusiasm and agility.

Stoneyard is a peaceful residential district, notable primarily for its significant shifter population and the large number of orchards and parks scattered throughout the region. Shifter children often use the parks for hrazhak matches, swinging through the trees and racing through the grass. A druid named Teln (N male shifter druid 3) helps to maintain the foliage and tend to those injured in hrazhak; in exchange for his services, the locals provide for his needs. Teln follows the Gatekeeper tradition, and sends word to the Gatehouse in Skysedge Park if he sees anything disturbing.

##### Longstairs (Apartment townhomes)
> Most of the towers in this residential district have stairs that wrap around the outside of the buildings. The people go about their business with quiet determination, and keep a suspicious eye on any strangers.

Longstairs is a quiet residential district, and its inhabitants like it that way. The people of Longstairs are primarily human and dwarf commoners, with a few experts and magewrights mixed in. These citizens go out of their way to maintain the stability of the neighborhood, and anything disruptive is quickly met with unified opposition. The apartments in Longstairs are reasonably priced and well maintained. However, adventurers who settle in Longstairs may have to make an extra effort to fit in; characters that engage in wild antics may be run out of the neighborbood.

#### Middle Northedge
>Peaceful residential area, home to skilled crafters and successful merchants.

Middle Northedge is a peaceful residential ward, featuring some of the finest average housing in the city. The inhabitants are successful, hardworking folk, and the streets are clean and quiet. Much of the dwarf population of the city lives in this ward.

##### Holdfast (Dwarf neighborhood)
> Dwarves fill streets of Holdfast, though few have the accent or wear the clothing of the Mror Holds. The ringing of anvils and song of steel on steel can be heard rising from the smithies in the center to the district, and masons pass by with cartloads of stone. The people seem to be very industrious, and reasonably well off.

When King Galifar I’s son, Karrn, invaded the Mror Holds, the dwarf nation was in a state of anarchy and constant clan warfare. Despite the barbaric state of their realm, the dwarves were natural miners and stonemasons with an innate talent for building fortifications. When King Galifar decided to rebuild the city of Sharn, he brought in a force of dwarf engineers and laborers from the Mror Holds. Dwarf hands played an important role in the rebirth of Sharn, and as the city grew it developed a sizeable dwarf population. Over the centuries, many dwarves spread across the city, abandoning their ancient roots. But other families remained together, forming a strong dwarf community. In time, they settled in the district they named Holdfast.

Dwarves comprise almost 90% of the population of Holdfast; the rest of the population is fairly evenly divided between gnomes, humans, and halflings. Most recent immigrants from the Mror Holds live in Highhold in Upper Dura; the dwarves of Holdfast are descended from the dwarves that came to rebuild Sharn in the earliest days of King Galifar’s rule, and they have no strong attachment to the Mror Holds or its traditions. They are, however, extremely loyal to one another. A dwarf born in Holdfast has a thousand friends, and can always find shelter or a meal. Of course, this is a double-edged sword, and old friends or family may ask for help with gambling debts, the Boromar Clan, or any number of other possible reasons.

The people of Holdfast are comfortably middle class. Some serve as overseers in the vast foundries down in the Cogs, while others are architects or stonemasons. Holdfast also contains smithies of all sorts. Most of the arms and armor of the Sharn City Watch are produced in Holdfast, and anyone looking for masterwork armor can find it in this district. The smiths also look after their own, and if a dwarf of Brelish descent can make a successful DC 10 Charisma check, the cost of any weapons or armor he purchases in Holdfast is reduced by 10%.

##### High Hope (Temple district)
> Shrines and temples line the suspended streets of High Hope. Compared to the gaudy trappings of Sovereign Towers, High Hope appears plain and functional. However, the temples are large and well maintained, and throngs of devotees fill the streets.

The most impressive temples in Sharn are found in the Sovereign Towers district of Middle Central. But the glory of these monuments is tarnished by the corruption within the churches themselves. High Hope lacks the gilt trappings of Sovereign Towers, but what it lacks in pomp it makes up for with faith and sincerity. In addition to the three primary temples and the three large shrines, there are a wide range of smaller monuments dedicated to other deities and to religious heroes and martyrs. The people who live in the district or who come to High Hope to pray are typically quiet and serious in their devotions.

The councilor of Middle Northedge lives in High Hope. Doran Cantar (NG male human expert 4/adept 1, Community domain) comes from a long line of advocates and mediators. In addition to inheriting the wealth and talents of his family, Doran has a strong faith in the Sovereign Lady Boldrei; while he does not serve as a priest, he draws strength and minor mystical abilities from his faith. Doran often consults with Daca (see next page).

- **Coldflame Keep**: While it looks more like a fortress than a place of worship, Coldflame Keep is the local church devoted to the Silver Flame. Established during the Purge as a garrison of the church templars, Coldflame Keep has slowly dwindled as the hierophants have drawn resources away to the temples of Sovereign Towers and Pinnacle. Today, the keep is a shadow of its former self. Flamebearer Mazin Tana (LG male human cleric 6) does his best to maintain the temple and serve the community. His acolytes consist of two teenagers and one crippled scribe. The garrison was built to house a hundred soldiers, but currently there are only eight templars in residence, most of whom are 2ndlevel warriors. While these soldiers are supposed to protect the district from supernatural threats, Mazin believes that they have been chosen by the Archierophant to keep an eye on the aging priest—to make certain that Mazin does not try to interfere with the powers that control the Church in Sharn. While he is disillusioned with his superiors, Mazin still believes in the ideals of the Church and does his best to help those in need. If the party needs the aid of a true priest of the Silver Flame, Mazin is one of the few people who can help them.
- **Daca’s Watch**: High Hope contains an unusual shrine to Boldrei, a monument that has come to be known as Daca’s Watch. A thick, 12-foot pillar of densewood, this structure was supposed to hold a statue of some priest or martyr, but funding for the project evaporated, and the pillar stood empty for many years. One day, a gnome named Daca climbed up to the top and sat down. From this high perch, she watched and studied the people, occasionally shouting advice to people who seemed troubled or distressed. That was 120 years ago. Daca still sits on her post, watching over her neighbors. While she has no oracular powers, she is very familiar with the people of High Hope and has a great deal of common sense. The inhabitants of the district often come to her for advice or when a mediator is required, and she served as an emotional pillar of the community over the course of the Last War. While she has no religious training and does not profess to be a priestess of Boldrei, most of the locals believe that she has been touched by the goddess and consider her to be a holy woman. They are not alone in this; a handful of priests from other districts regularly visit High Hope to discuss events in Sharn with Daca.

##### Oakbridge (Average residential)
> Towers and houses of polished densewood fill this district. While simple in design, the buildings are comfortable and well designed, and the district has been carefully maintained. The streets are quiet and the people are friendly, and after a few minutes, it feels like home.

While the majority of the townhouses and apartments in Oakbridge fall into the “average” category, they are of the highest quality within that category. The district is not ostentatious and an Oakbridge address conveys no status on its owner, but the buildings are large, well constructed, and very safe, and the inhabitants are friendly and always keep an eye out for one another. If someone purchases a home in Oakbridge, within a week he has dozens of new friends.

- **Bright Wind**: The people of Oakbridge are generally a social and outgoing group, but the friendliest inhabitants of the district are the members of Milana family, who live in a small, comfortable townhouse they have named Bright Wind. Jolan Milana (NG male human commoner 3) is a baker who sells his wares in High Hope, while his wife Sarina (NG female human commoner 3) is a seamstress who works out of their home. They have three young children: Jalina (female, 12), Mesin (male, 8), and Jeral (male, 5). Anyone who settles in Oakbridge soon receives a personal welcome from the Milanas. In time, the family may be used as a way to pull a party into an adventure. Perhaps one of the children goes missing or overhears a conversation she shouldn't have. Maybe Jolan is infected with a Riedran mind seed. Or perhaps this friendly family is hiding a dark secret—a tie to a Radiant Cult or one of the Cults of the Dragon Below.

#### Upper Northedge
>Wealthy, but not ostentatious. Calm and peaceful.

Upper Northedge is home to those who have the wealth to purchase a manor in the clouds, but who wish to avoid the bustle of Upper Central. This ward also houses the majority of Sharn’s population of elves.

##### Shae Lias (Elf neighborhood)
> The district is filled with beautifully sculpted statues of long-dead elves. Densewood warriors stand guard at the gates of townhouses, while statues of priests and honored elders are spread throughout plazas and open-air orchards. The residents move quietly among these statues of the dead, carrying out their daily activities with silent grace.

While naturalized elves can be found throughout Sharn, Shae Lias is a bastion for the values and traditions of the elves of Aerenal. Orchard balconies ring the neighborhood; the restaurants of the district own some of these, while others are open to the public for purposes of meditation and reflection. In addition to serving as a residential district for Aerenal expatriates, it is a source for a wide range of elven craftwork, woodwork, and furniture. The district also includes a handful of more exotic establishments, a few of which are outlined below.

- **The Gates of Passage**: This densewood structure is the physical and spiritual heart of Shae Lias. Dedicated to the Undying Court, it serves as crypt, temple, and embassy. Citizens of Aerenal who die in Sharn are embalmed in the Gates and preserved until their remains can be transported back to the island kingdom. Mayne Jhaelian and the other priests act as spiritual advisers and political ambassadors, performing in the interests of citizens of Aerenal. Jhaelian has ties to the Deathguard of Aerenal, and it is possible that he might ask adventurers to help resolve a situation involving the Blood of Vol or other undead menaces.
- **The House of Repose**: The elves of Aerenal know more about caring for the dead than any other culture on Eberron, and the embalmers and crypt builders of the House of Repose have served many of the wealthiest families in Sharn. Many of the crypts, tombs, and shrines in the City of the Dead are the work of these elf artisans.
- **The Oaks**: Known as one of the finest restaurants in the city, the Oaks rests on one of the vast balconies of the Nowen Tower. Patrons dine in an elaborate, two-story open-air pavilion, surrounded by the living trees from which the restaurant takes its name. The Oaks specializes in exotic Aerenal cuisine, but also serves a variety of traditional Brelish dishes, including pepper cider and spiced daggertrout. The owner, Maza Thadian (LN female elf commoner 17), has served as head chef for over 300 years, and is respected throughout the district for her wisdom and common sense. Six years ago, Maza assumed the position of Councilor for Upper Northedge, and today she leaves most of the restaurant work to her sons, Meryn and Malys; however, she can still be coaxed to perform her culinary miracles for special patrons.
- **Nightshade**: Part apothecary, part tavern, Nightshade caters to those who wish to explore the mysteries of death. Some of its patrons are necromancers or devout followers of the Undying Court, while others are jaded youths or thrill-seeking aristocrats. In addition to the traditional funerary dishes of Aerenal, Nightshade serves beverages tainted with weak poisons designed to bring the diner to the edge of death. It is unusual for a client to actually die; the servers are trained in resuscitation and keep antitoxin on hand. But accidents do happen.
- **The Silver Bough**: Aerenal is known for its exotic woods, including bronzewood, darkwood, and livewood. The elves who can turn leaf and tree into arms and armor are known as woodshapers, and Tanar Mendyrian (N male elf wizard 3/magewright 10) is one of the finest in Khorvaire. While he is best known for his darkwood bows, Tanar also produces leafweave, darkleaf, and bronzewood armor, and he takes commissions to shape melee weapons from the exotic woods. While most of his goods are merely of masterwork quality, Tanar can create weapons or armor with an enhancement bonus of up to +4. However, he takes great pride in these treasures and is careful about his clientele; anyone that wants an enchanted item must win Tanar’s respect (DC 25 Diplomacy check; elves receive a +9 circumstance bonus) before the woodshaper accepts the commission.
- **The Winding Root**: This gallery showcases the work of over a dozen elf artisans. Much of the work in the Winding Root is wooden sculpture, but the gallery also sells tapestries, jewelry, and even clothing. The goods sold at the Winding Root are of the highest quality, often representing years or even decades of work, and the prices reflect their perfection. When someone needs to find a gown or suit to wear to the Brelish Court, the Winding Root is a great place to visit—but the prices keep the gallery out of reach of all but the wealthiest citizens of Sharn. If someone wants to sell her work in the Winding Root, she must speak to the owner, Jhaia Thesaelia (N female elf commoner 7). Jhaia is only interested in the work of elven artisans, and items must have been produced with a minimum Craft skill check of DC 30. Her initial attitude is indifferent, and at this level she charges a 20% commission to sell an item. If she is friendly toward the artist, she drops her commission to 15%; if helpful, the cost is reduced to 10%.
- **The Veil of Flesh**: This is a studio for body art, including traditional tattoos and the elven techniques that give the living the appearance of death. Depending on the purse and the desires of the client, the effects of either procedure can be permanent or temporary.

##### Crystal Bridge (Wealthy residential)
> Manors and mansions surround penthouse towers, the sheer size of these estates hinting at the wealth of the residents within. Walls and bridges are covered with thick panels of glass and crysteel, causing a brilliant kaleidoscope of color when sunlight strikes the towers.

While many of the most influential citizens of Sharn prefer to live in Upper Central, closer to the center of government and trade, Crystal Bridge is home to many of Sharn’s wealthiest denizens. A number of dragonmarked heirs maintain private residences in Crystal Bridge or Oak Towers, along with Brelish aristocrats and merchant princes. Crystal Towers is a quiet, peaceful district, and many of its inhabitants employ private guards to ensure that it remains peaceful.

Notable inhabitants of Crystal Bridge include:
* Haras Kant (NE male human aristocrat 6) is a wealthy Brelish aristocrat anda member of the Aurum. Like most members of the Aurum, he is interested in increasing his personal power and wealth, whatever the cost. Kant has a special interest in fabulous and magic gems, and adventurers that obtain unusual gemstones may attract his interest — which can be a dangerous thing.
* Ilia Merith (LG female human aristocrat 3/ expert 3), amember of Sharn’s upper crust, isa noted philanthropist and a strong supporter of the arts, particularly song and poetry. Ilia might become a patron for a PC bard, or she could employ the party to recover a rare book of poetry that has been lost or stolen.

##### Oak Towers (Wealthy residential)
> The smooth lines of elven architecture can be seen throughout this district, and most of the towers are formed of polished densewood. Manors and palatial estates line the wide avenues, and private gardens can be seen stretching out on walled balconies.

Like Crystal Bridge, Oak Towers is a peaceful neighborhood that is home to many of Sharn’s wealthiest citizens. The elven influence of Shae Lias is clearly visible in the architecture of the district, and much of the population is made up of elves and half-elves. Between the Sharn City Watch, private guards, and the magical wards employed by many of the households, Oak Towers remains a quiet and peaceful district.

- **Stormwind Keep**: This luxurious tower serves as the private estate of Dantian d’Lyrandar (N male half-elf expert 5/dragonmark heir 3). Dantian, a trade minister for House Lyrandar, is second in influence to his aunt Solia. While Solia d’Lyrandar spends most of her time in the house enclave in Dragon Towers, Dantian prefers the luxury of Stormwind Keep. The house often uses Dantian’s estate when hosting gala events or entertaining important guests. Dantian himself is a diplomatic individual, but primarily interested in furthering the economic and political power of his house. He has little interest in dealing with adventurers or other members of the lower classes.

### References

* Sharn: City of Towers
* https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Sharn
